put down a resolution on the subject
and he is to be backed by Mr. Will
nominating any more Labour life Peers
M Ps tomorrow. Mr. Michael Foot has
Griffiths, M P for Manchester Exchange .
is to be made at a meeting of Labour
A MOVE to stop Mr. Gaitskell from
0M P for Manchester Exchange .
A MOVE to stop Mr. Gaitskell from nominating
meeting of Labour 0M Ps tommorow . Mr. Michael
any more Labour life Peers is to be made at a
Foot has put down a resolution on the subject
and he is to be backed by Mr. Will Griffiths ,
which would appear to " prop up " an out-dated
Though they may gather some Left-wing support , a
life peers into existence , they should not
and that Labour should not take any steps
now put forward nominees . He believes
large majority of Labour M Ps are likely to
that the House of Lords should be abolished
institution .
opposed the Government Bill which brought
turn down the Foot-Griffiths resolution . Mr.
Foot's line will be that as Labour M Ps
into existence , they should not now put
Though they may gather some Left-wing
which would appear to " prop up " an out-
House of Lords should be abolished and
M Ps are likely to turn down the Foot-
that Labour should not take any steps
be that as Labour M Ps opposed the
forward nominees . He believes that the
Government Bill which brought life peers
Griffiths resolution . Mr. Foot's line will
support , a large majority of Labour
will be that as Labour 0M Ps opposed the Govern-
that Labour should not take any steps which would
appear to " prop up " an out-dated institution .
large majority of Labour 0m Ps are likely to turn
that the House of Lords should be abolished and
Though they may gather some Left-wing support , a
down the Foot-Griffiths resolution . Mr. Foot's line
ment Bill which brought life peers into existence , they
should not now put forward nominees . He believes
get together to face the challenge from Sir
members . THE two rival African Nationalist
Roy Welensky , the Federal Premier .
Parties of Northern Rhodesia have agreed to
Peeresses have been created . Most Labour
Labour has to have an adequate number of
sentiment would # still favour the abolition
of the House of Lords , but while it remains
Since 1958 , 13 Labour life Peers and
of members . THE two rival African
Peeresses have been created . Most Labour
the challenge from Sir Roy Welensky ,
of the House of Lords , but while it remains
have agreed to get together to face
Since 1958 , 13 Labour life Peers and
the Federal Premier .
Labour has to have an adequate number
Nationalist Parties of Northern Rhodesia
sentiment would still favour the abolition
Peeresses have been created . Most Labour sentiment
Since 1958 , 13 Labour life Peers and #
of Lords , but while it remains Labour has to
challenge from Sir Roy Welensky , the Federal Premier .
two rival African Nationalist Parties of Northern
would still favour the abolition of the House
have an adequate number of members . THE
Rhodesia have agreed to get together to face the
Party ( 280,000 members ) and Mr. Harry Nkumbula's African
to discuss a common course of action . Sir Roy is
Delegates from Mr. Kenneth Kaunda's United National Independence
violently opposed to Africans getting an elected majority
in Northern Rhodesia , but the Colonial Secretary ,
National Congress ( 400,000 ) will meet in London today
Mr. Iain Macleod , is insisting on a policy of change .
Delegates from Mr. Kenneth Kaunda's
( 280,000 members ) and Mr. Harry Nkumbula's
majority in Northern Rhodesia , but the
African National Congress ( 400,000 ) will
meet in London today to discuss a common
United National Independence Party
Colonial Secretary , Mr. Iain Macleod ,
course of action . Sir Roy is violently
is insisting on a policy of change .
opposed to Africans getting an elected
Rhodesia , but the Colonial Secretary , Mr. Iain
getting an elected majority in Northern
National Independence Party ( 280,000 members )
Congress ( 400,000 ) will meet in London today
to discuss a common course of action .
Macleod , is insisting on a policy of change .
and Mr. Harry Nkumbula's African National
Delegates from Mr. Kenneth Kaunda's United
Sir Roy is violently opposed to Africans
chief aide , Mr. Julius Greenfield , telephoned
his chief a report on his talks with
the talks fall through . There are bound
to be demonstrations . " Yesterday Sir Roy's
future . Said Mr. Nkumbula last night :
Mr. Macmillan at Chequers .
" We want to discuss what to do if the
Sir Roy's United Federal Party is boycotting
the London talks on the Protectorate's
British Government gives in to Sir Roy and
boycotting the London talks on the
do if the British demonstrations . "
Sir Roy's United Federal Party is
Protectorate's future . Said Mr. Nkumbula
at Chequers .
Yesterday Sir Roy's chief aide , Mr.
a report on his talks with Mr. Macmillan
Julius Greenfield , telephoned his chief
last night : " We want to discuss what to
British Government gives in to Sir Roy
and the talks fall through . There are bound
future . Said Mr. Nkumbula last night :
the London talks on the Protectorate's
chief aide , Mr. Julius Greenfield , telephoned
Macmillan at Chequers .
" We want to discuss what to do if the
Sir Roy's United Federal Party is boycotting
his chief a report on his talks with Mr.
to be demonstrations . " Yesterday Sir Roy's
to the Africans and Liberals attending . These
will meet to discuss the function of a
majority they are seeking . African delegates
are studying them today . The conference
plans do not give the Africans the overall
proposed House of Chiefs .
Lancaster House despite the crisis which had
Mr. Macleod went on with the conference at
blown up . He has now revealed his full plans
Mr. Macleod went on with the conference
at Lancaster House despite the crisis
them today . The conference will meet
attending . These plans do not give the
Africans the overall majority they are
House of Chiefs .
seeking . African delegates are studying
to discuss the function of a proposed
which had blown up . He has now revealed
his full plans to the Africans and Liberals
studying them today . The conference will meet
to discuss the function of a proposed House
blown up . He has now revealed his full plans
to the Africans and Liberals attending . These
plans do not give the Africans the overall majo-
rity they are seeking . African delegates are
Mr. Macleod went on with the conference at
Lancaster House despite the crisis which had
of Chiefs .
secret negotiations on Northern Rhodesia's future .
Minister of the Central African Federation , went
in the Commons last night that there have been
to Chequers at the week-end for talks with
MR. IAIN MACLEOD , the Colonial Secretary , denied
But representatives of Sir Roy Welensky , Prime
The Northern Rhodesia conference in London has
Mr. Macmillan .
been boycotted by the two main settlers' parties -
the United Federal Party and the Dominion Party .
boycotted by the two main settlers' parties -
there have been secret negotiations on
Party . But representatives of Sir Roy
Rhodesia conference in London has been
the week-end for talks with Mr. Macmillan .
the United Federal Party and the Dominion
denied in the Commons last night that
Welensky , Prime Minister of the Central
African Federation , went to Chequers at
Northern Rhodesia's future . The Northern
MR. IAIN MACLEOD , the Colonial Secretary ,
in the Commons last night that there have
Central African Federation , went to Chequers
Mr. Iain Macleod , the Colonial Secretary , denied
future . The Northern Rhodesia conference in
been secret negotiations on the Northern Rhodesia's
and the Dominion Party . But representatives
London has been boycotted by the two main
settlers' parties - the United Federal Party
at the week-end for talks with Mr. Macmillan .
of Sir Roy Welensky , Prime Minister of the
He said Britain had an obligation to consult the Federal
refusing to sit round the conference table .
M Ps yesterday : " I have no knowledge of secret negotiations . "
Government . But the final decision remained with the British
Government . Mr. James Callaghan , Labour's Colonial spokesman ,
said Sir Roy had no right to delay progress in the talks by
Mr. Macleod was not at the week-end meeting . But he told
Northern Rhodesia is a member of the Federation .
He said Britain had an obligation to consult
the Federal Government . But the final
have no knowledge of secret negotiations . "
spokesman , said Sir Roy had no right to
Mr. James Callaghan , Labour's Colonial
meeting . But he told M Ps yesterday : " I
Northern Rhodesia is a member of the Federation .
decision remained with the British Government .
Mr. Macleod was not at the week-end
delay progress in the talks by refusing
to sit round the conference table .
the Federal Government . Mr. James Callaghan ,
Northern Rhodesia is a member of the Fede-
said Britain had an obligation to consult
refusing to sit round the conference table .
have no knowledge of secret negotiations . " He
Labour's Colonial spokesman , said Sir Roy had
no right to delay progress in the talks by
ration . Mr. Macleod was not at the week-end
meeting . But he told M Ps yesterday : " I
negotiations with Sir Roy's representative ,
sent from the Government were " unsatisfac-
Mr. Julius Greenfield . He was at Che-
day called on Mr. Macmillan to cease his
tory . " African delegates to the talks yester-
parties had refused to attend the talks
Mr. Macleod thought the two Rhodesian
Sir Roy's Federal Government in the
regarded with " growing anger " the " gross
and unconstitutional " interference by
quers last week-end . They said they
because Sir Roy had found messages
talks .
interference by Sir Roy's Federal Government in the talks .
had found messages sent from the Government were
at Chequers last week-end . They said they regarded
called on Mr. Macmillan to cease his negotiations with
had refused to attend the talks because Sir Roy
with " growing anger " the gross and unconstitutional "
" unsatisfactory . " African delegates to the talks yesterday
Mr. Macleod thought the two Rhodesian parties
Sir Roy's representative , Mr. Julius Greenfield . He was
racial discrimination in Government
defended the appointment of a Negro as
strong opposition from the anti-Negro
his Housing Minister . It has aroused
and State housing projects .
Informal talks at Lancaster House will
B.Kaufmann
senators of the Deep South . The negro
resume today . President Kennedy today
is Mr. Robert Weaver of New York . One
of his tasks will be to see there is no
Deep South . The negro is Mr. Robert #
Weaver of New York . One of his tasks will
in Government and State housing
his Housing Minister . It has aroused strong
defended the appointment of a Negro as
projects .
opposition from the anti-Negro senators of the
Informal talks at Lancaster House will
resume today . PRESIDENT KENNEDY today
be to see there is no racial discrimination
the appointment of a Negro as his Housing Minister .
senators of the Deep South . The negro is Mr.
will be to see there is no racial discrimination
in Government and State housing projects .
today . PRESIDENT KENNEDY today defended
It has aroused strong opposition from the anti-Negro
Informal talks at Lancaster House will resume
Robert Weaver of New York . One of his tasks
that Weaver once had Communist affiliations .
by another Southern Senator - Willis Robertson ,
off the opposition by telling a television
of Virginia - met today in closed session
audience it was " current Washington gossip "
Robertson later disclosed he had sent a letter
to Mr. Kennedy saying he had received several
complaints about Weaver's loyalty .
to discuss Weaver's appointment . Senator
Senator Allen Ellender of Louisiana sparked
The Senate Banking Committee , which is headed
discuss Weaver's appointment . Senator
Virginia - met today in closed session to
Southern Senator - Willis Robertson , of
Committee , which is headed by another
Robertson later disclosed he had sent a letter
to Mr. Kennedy saying he had received
Washington gossip " that Weaver once had
Communist affiliations . The Senate Banking
Senator Allen Ellender , of Louisiana ,
television audience it was " current
sparked off the opposition by telling a
Willis Robertson , of Virginia - met today in
letter to Mr. Kennedy saying he had received several
gossip " that Weaver once had Communist affilia-
complaints about Weaver's loyalty .
Senator Allen Ellender , of Louisiana ,
Senator Robertson later disclosed he had sent a
closed session to discuss Weaver's appointment .
tions . The Senate Banking Committee , which
is headed by another Southern Senator -
sparked off the opposition by telling a
television audience it was " current Washington
Robertson saying the Federal Bureau of In-
He believed he would perform " outstanding
He said these concerned Mr. Weaver's
Mr. Kennedy rushed a letter to Senator
committee has to pass Mr. Weaver's
alleged association with organisations black-
service " in his post . Senator Robertson's
vestigation had reported on Mr. Weaver .
nomination before it can be con-
# sidered by the full Senate .
listed by the Government . Immediately
has to pass Mr. Weaver's nomination before it
he would perform " outstanding service "
alleged association with organisations black-
listed by the Government . Immediately Mr.
He said these concerned Mr. Weaver's
saying the Federal Bureau of Investigation had
Kennedy rushed a letter to Senator Robertson
reported on Mr. Weaver . He believed
can be considered by the full Senate .
in his post . Senator Robertson's committee
association with organisations black-listed by the
nomination before it can be considered by the
committee has to pass Mr. Weaver's
full Senate .
of Investigation had reported on Mr. Weaver .
He said these concerned Mr. Weaver's alleged
He believed he would perform " outstanding
Government . Immediately Mr. Kennedy rushed a letter
to Senator Robertson saying the Federal Bureau
service " in his post . Senator Robertson's
mention personal talks with Dr.
over West Germany's cash offer to help
Germany to pay more . He did not
not good enough . And he indicated
day that the offer - 357million - was
He said bluntly in Washington yester-
Adenauer , the West German Chancellor .
America's balance of payments position .
PRESIDENT KENNEDY is ready to get tough
that his Government would try to get
And he indicated that his Government
PRESIDENT KENNEDY is ready to get tough
would try to get Germany to pay more . He
America's balance of payments position . He
over West Germany's cash offer to help
said bluntly in Washington yesterday that
Adenauer , the West German Chancellor .
the offer - 357million - was not good enough .
did not mention personal talks with Dr.
help America's balance of payments position
tough over West Germany's cash offer to
talks with Dr. Adenauer , the West
Government would try to get Germany to
He said bluntly in Washington yesterday
pay more . He did not mention personal
German Chancellor .
PRESIDENT KENNEDY is ready to get
that the offer - 357million - was not good
enough . And he indicated that his
due in Washington next week . A big
useful . The President will probably
anyway .
United States officials quickly point out
discuss the problem with Dr. Brentano ,
payment of a 210million debt to America .
level than in the past " might be
But he said discussions " on a higher
slice of Germany's " aid " # is the early
the West German Foreign Minister , who is
that this is money due to America
to America anyway .
But he said discussions " on a higher
Foreign Minister , who is due in Washington
is the early payment of a 210million
The President will probably discuss the
problem with Dr. Brentano , the West German
level than in the past " might be useful .
debt to America . United States officials
next week . A big slice of Germany's " aid "
quickly point out that this is money due
this is money due to America anyway .
German Foreign Minister , who is due in
Washington next week . A big slice of
level than in the past " might be useful .
The President will probably discuss the
States officials quickly point out that
Germany's " aid " is the early payment
of a 210million debt to America . United
problem with Dr. Brentano , the West
But he said discussions " on a higher
flatly rejected attempts by the Eisenhower
And they are unimpressed by the Germans' claim
that they cannot pay more than 357million
or for the present . The Adenauer Government
without upsetting their own economy . The
sum towards the cost of keeping American
Government to get them to pay a regular
good and is not paying for the past
Americans say Germany is having it too
troops in Germany .
answer is the once-and-for-all cash
West German Government . It will now have
to pay more - and increase taxation to do
the new American administration .
rejection of it is a painful blow to the
so - or run the obvious # risks in upsetting
America's dollar reserves . Dr. Adenauer's
offer of 357million . President Kennedy's
These support costs are a big drain on
West German Government . It will now have to pay
dollar reserves . Dr. Adenauer's answer is the
run the obvious risks in upsetting the new
Kennedy's rejection of it is a painful blow to the
American administration .
These support costs are a big drain on America's
more - and increase taxation to do so - or
once-and-for-all cash offer of 357million . President
was waiting for his senior military
spot . Joyce Egginton cables : President
Kennedy at his Washington Press con-
ference admitted he did not know
February 20 .
whether America was lagging behind
And , since this is election year in West
aides to come up with the answer on
Russia in missile power . He said he
Germany , Dr. Adenauer is in a tough
And , since this is election year in West
lagging behind Russia in missile power .
Germany , Dr. Adenauer is in a tough spot .
he did not know whether America was
at his Washington Press conference admitted
Joyce Egginton cables : President Kennedy
He said he was waiting for his senior
military aides to come up with the answer
on February 20 .
in personality last night dominated
CHILDREN TWO men who are poles apart
slackness in the Eisenhower Administration
This surprising statement was a sharp about-
did his best to avoid giving Pressmen
in nuclear development . President Kennedy
had caused America to lag behind Russia
face from his warnings during the
Presidential election campaign . He claimed
a direct answer . George Brown
Mr. Brown , passionate and warm-hearted , led
always come first .
issue behind the Health Service ; the other
tried to show that the balance-sheet must
to angry uproar . One dealt with the human
ment - and ended by inciting Labour M Ps
unemotional , replied with a statistical state-
charges . Mr. Powell , white-faced and outwardly
Labour's attack on the higher health
statistical statement - and ended by inciting
balance-sheet must always come first .
charges . Mr. Powell , white-faced and
with the human issue behind the Health
Service ; the other tried to show that the
outwardly unemotional , replied with a
Labour M Ps to angry uproar . One dealt
Mr. Brown , passionate and warm-hearted ,
led Labour's attack on the higher health
people far beyond the ranks of Labour
" undermining the Health Service " and
censure motion on the Government for
The result of the vote was not in
able to bear them . Mr. Brown
doubt . For the Tories were massed
was monstrous . It had offended many
placing heavy burdens on those least
declared that the policy under censure
in answer to their whips to defeat a
supporters .
For the Tories were massed in answer to
many people far beyond the ranks of
The result of the vote was not in doubt .
on the Government for " undermining the
Brown declared that the policy under
censure was monstrous . It had offended
Labour supporters .
on those least able to bear them . Mr.
their whips to defeat a censure motion
Health Service " and placing heavy burdens
this letter which Mr. Gaitskell had received :
whole principle of the State service and
by my party's proposal to prostitute the
has practised medicine for 43 years , chiefly
Conservative . I am horrified and amazed
The Press , many doctors and public were
to render that service a hardship to poor
" My background is a doctor of 68 , who
as a panel doctor . " I am a lifelong
denouncing the proposals . He quoted from
people .
quantity surveyor . We have descended
" After a lifetime of helping others and
the increased charges is a wicked ,
healing the sick , my considered
opinion is that anybody supporting
needs an imaginative architect to
old - . " Mr. Brown went on : " We
with bills of cost .
are dealing with a noble edifice which
improve it , but it has got a
from the real problems to fiddling about
fiddling about with bills of cost .
" After a lifetime of helping others and
healing the sick , my considered opinion is that
anybody supporting the increased charges is a
it , but it has got a quantity surveyor . We
wicked , old - . " Mr. Brown went on : " We
are dealing with a noble edifice which
needs an imaginative architect to improve
have descended from the real problems to
never were . " Interrupted by angry Tories , Mr. Brown retorted :
people , is good and attainable . " We remain for it . But the Tories
We believe that a comprehensive medical service , free to the patient
at the point of need and with one standard for all sick
" The jackals bay when there is nothing better they can do . "
sick people , is good and attainable .
Mr. Brown retorted : " The jackals bay
when there is nothing better they can do . "
never were . " Interrupted by angry Tories ,
" We remain for it . But the Tories
of need and with one standard for all
" We believe that a comprehensive medical
service , free to the patient at the point
He told them that their conception of social services was wholly
the Korean war .
wretched - but it would not be too comfortable nor too easy to
get . Answering jeers that it was Labour which first put a
ceiling on health spending and started charges , Mr. Brown
reminded the hostile Government benches that was
would provide an ambulance service for the absolutely
different - fundamentally different from that of Labour . They
done in 1950 because of the financial strain of
nor too easy to get . Answering jeers that
services was wholly different - fundamentally
He told them that their conception of social
provide an ambulance service for the absolutely
different from that of Labour . They would
Brown reminded the hostile Government benches
on health spending and started charges , Mr.
strain of the Korean war .
that was done in 1950 because of the financial
wretched - but it would not be too comfortable
it was Labour which first put a ceiling
take ruthless action against the drug making
per cent. in the last eight years .
unsmiling Mr. Powell . He demanded that instead
Then Mr. Brown swung his attack directly to the
needy than Labour had to make it in 1950 . And
In fact , the Tories made it worse now for the sick and
of taking it out of the patients Mr. Powell should
industry , whose profits had risen by up to 400
as a percentage of social service expenditure ,
health had fallen from 28.5 to 23.1 per cent.
that instead of taking it out of the
to make it in 1950 . And as a percentage
of social service expenditure , health had
fallen from 28.5 to 23.1 per cent. Then
Mr. Brown swung his attack directly to
for the sick and needy than Labour had
action against the drug making industry , #
In fact , the Tories made it worse now
whose profits had risen by up to 400 per
the unsmiling Mr. Powell . He demanded
patients Mr. Powell should take ruthless
to the welfare food scheme . It was maintained
during the war . Now in conditions of Tory
industry , " Mr. Brown commented icily . " Let us have a
industry . " The health of children today owed much
affluence it seemed it could not be carried on .
full inquiry into the cost of drugs and the pharmaceutical
children and sick people than to take on this vast
" Mr. Powell finds it easier to take it out of mothers ,
the war . Now in conditions of Tory
food scheme . It was maintained during
carried on .
the pharmaceutical industry . " The health
affluence it seemed it could not be
of mothers , children and sick people than
of children today owed much to the welfare
full inquiry into the cost of drugs and
Brown commented icily . " Let us have a
to take on this vast industry , " Mr.
" Mr. Powell finds it easier to take it out
to giving details of plans for improving the hospital service ,
on which indeed the Government is making progress .
a full minute - and even his bitterest opponents
" even after the proposed changes the net cost of the
service to the Exchequer will have increased over
When Mr . Brown sat down Labour M Ps cheered for
three years by 20 per cent.
on defence joined in . Mr. Powell devoted half his speech
His basic defence of the Health Service cuts was that
Health Service cuts was that " even after
making progress . His basic defence of the
service , on which indeed the Government is
cheered for a full minute - and even his
the proposed changes the net cost of the
bitterest opponents on defence joined in .
details of plans for improving the hospital
over three years by 20 per cent.
When Mr . Brown sat down Labour M Ps
service to the Exchequer will have increased
Mr. Powell devoted half his speech to giving
foods would still be free in families
adjustment being made in financing . "
receiving regular National Assistance
The Government decided to adjust
undermining - the service . Answering the
claimed was underpinning - not
development being limited or an
" That cannot continue without either
the financing - which Mr. Powell
grants .
foods , Mr. Powell said that all these
attack on " economic charges " for welfare
Powell said that all these foods would
adjust the financing - which Mr. Powell
still be free in families receiving regular
claimed was underpinning - not undermining -
the service . Answering the attack on
National Assistance grants .
being limited or an adjustment being made
in financing . " The Government decided to
" economic charges " for welfare foods , Mr.
" That cannot continue without either development
the financing - which Mr. Powell claimed was
for welfare , Mr. Powell said that all these
being limited or an adjustment being made
" That cannot continue without either development
foods would still be free in families receiving
underpinning - not undermining - the service .
Answering the attack on " economic charges "
regular National Assistance grants .
in financing . " The Government decided to adjust
taken as a friendly gesture in Whitehall ,
de Gaulle's official welcome last week
MR. Macmillan has picked a strong " brains trust "
Gaulle this month to smooth the way . General
but no more than that .
And he has abandoned plans to visit President de
team to negotiate terms for joining the Common Market .
to Britain's moves towards the Six was
of negotiations with the Six . At the same
the Prime Minister to Paris was dropped
safeguard their interests
France , to back Mr. Edward Heath , Lord
Privy Seal , who is charged with the conduct
Sir Pierson Dixon , Britain's Ambassador to
So the idea of personal mission by
Commonwealth Governments every facility possible to
Instead Mr. Macmillan will rely on a
time the Prime Minister has offered
hand-picked team under the leadership of
Commonwealth Relations Secretary , that they wish to be kept
countries can arrange for observers to advise the British
in touch in London . Three of them - Canada , Australia ,
meeting in London on Monday . Once the Common
Seven Commonwealth countries have told Mr. Sandys ,
negotiating team .
New Zealand - will have strong delegations at an opening
for negotiations in a fortnight's time , these Commonwealth
Market's Council of Ministers draws up the procedure
his days as Britain's chief UN dele-
son Dixon has a wide reputation as
is represented by Sir Roderick Barclay
Food , and Fisheries . The Foreign Office
tary at the Ministry of Agriculture ,
gate . Second in command is Mr.
The team is composed of experienced
negotiators in several fields . Sir Pier-
a skilful backstage negotiator since
Eric Roll , 53-year-old Deputy Secre-
negotiations should be held .
Market Commission , or wherever the Six decide
the Commonwealth Relations Office , Sir William
he goes to Brussels , headquarters of the Common
( Treasury ) , and Mr. G. H. Andrew ( Board of Trade ) .
Other leading members are : Sir Henry Lintott from
Corell-Barnes ( Colonial Office ) , Mr. G. R. Bell
They will accompany Mr. Heath next month when
fated to fly into trouble abroad . Last year it was
Some of the problems were reviewed yesterday at a
the riots in Istanbul , which enlivened the NATO
meeting in Paris between M. Couve de Murville , French
a man with troubles enough back home - seems
Council meeting .
Foreign Minister , and Mr. Heath . MR. Selwyn Lloyd -
Now we have the strikes and demonstrations in
Ghana coinciding with the meeting of the Com-
monwealth Economic Consultative Council - the
ter Mr Lloyd and his 24-strong delegation landed
Stores , the largest in town .
first to be held in Africa . Only a few hours af-
demonstrated outside the British-owned Kingsway
at Accra this morning , hundreds of shop assistants
including a compulsory savings scheme which the
Ghana Government introduced in July . Ghana's strong
man is not here to face the storm . President Nkrumah ,
having made his contribution to the neutrals' conference
The stores had been hit by the same strike wave
in Belgrade , has resumed his holiday on the Black
week . Root of the discontent : The austerity Budget ,
will return .
Sea and no one here professes to know when he
that has paralysed the port of Takoradi for the past
But in his absence his chief lieutenants have
been raised against the strikers and is now beginning
not let him down . The strong arm of authority has
of the people is the supreme law " ) reports : " The
Government has been urged to take immediate ac-
to tell . Today's Ghanaian Times ( motto : " The welfare
tion to deal ruthlessly with the strikers . "
Nkrumah's Convention Party " after powerful addresses
becomes an offence punishable with imprisonment
essential services and ensure food supplies . Thus it
the Government adequate power to maintain all
for anyone who " publishes a report likely to cause
others . Strong deeds followed strong words . In Takoradi
by Comrades Krobo Edusei , Tawia Adamafio , " and
The urge came from a conference of activists of
alarm or prejudicial to public safety . "
a " limited state of emergency " was declared , giving
Accra ?
strikers gave in , but in Takoradi , the chief storm centre ,
Government react when the strikers demonstrated in
on anyone convicted of sabotage . These stern measures
police and 16 armoured cars . And how did the
they are still holding out despite the presence of 1,400
And up to ten years' imprisonment can be imposed
had the desired effect today at Kumasi where the
" If you have not dispersed by ten o'clock , " he
drove up to the Kingsway Stores and faced the
a posse of police arrived and in less than
two minutes the crowd had gone .
At 9.40 Mr. Edusei , Minister of Transport and pro-
demonstrators , most of them shopgirls in overalls .
told them , ' the police will act . ' At five to ten
bably the toughest man in Mr. Nkrumah's team ,
Commonwealth was an occasion worthy of his presence .
After all it was Mr. Nkrumah who suggested that this
year the Economic Consultative Council should meet
thought that the muster from the 13 States of the
the President back from his travels it might have been
in Accra .
* enough
If the threatened " counter-revolution " was not * to bring
yesterday . It said pressure was being put on
disarming Committee of 100 , the Committee claimed
Minister , to do the honours as host , in which capacity
It has been left , however , to Mr. Goka , Ghana's Finance
openly intimidating members of Earl Russell's nuclear-
members and associates all over the country .
he held a reception tonight in Accra's Ambassador
Hotel . POLICE , on direct orders from the Cabinet , are
with the committee was going too far ; another
was not .
to pass the time of day " ; Supporters had
people " on no pretext whatsoever , except
that anti-apartheid agitation was
going out of action ; Police were visiting
all right , but support for the committee
It alleged : Phones were being tapped and
been warned - one that his connection
committee members will appear at Bow-street
Mr. Clark .
today , including Lord Russell , Lady Russell ,
by plain-clothes men . Committee-member Mr. George
Clark commented at a Press conference : " The
most extraordinary things are happening . " Fifty
A third man's house was watched for four days
Lord Boyd-Orr , the Rev. Michael Scott , and
packing a case , at his Chelsea home
yesterday . His secretary , American-born
Mr. Ralph Schoenman , said :
putting his affairs in order , and
are " likely to persevere in such unlawful
the peace and for inciting a breach
should not be bound over for disturbing
They are required to show why they
conduct . " Lord Russell , 89 , was
of the peace . The summonses say they
hopes to be allowed to do some writing . " Back at
members tried a " plant " call on suspect phone . They
discussed a sit-down at Watford at 5.30 p.m. - none
probably mean jail and , though frail , he is very fit and
the Press conference , Mr. Clark said two committee
will take the rigours of prison in his stride . He
" He is not going to agree to be bound over . That will
was planned but police turned up .
longer accepted the good faith of Mr. Kenneth
Sir Roy Welensky said today that he no
Federal Parliament in Salisbury .
of lawlessness among UNIP supporters went
until he was outlawed in 1959 . The record
Party was a monster as vicious as the Zambia
said that Mr. Kaunda's United National Independence
back a long way , Sir Roy told the
Kaunda . Sir Roy , Federal Rhodesian Prime Minister ,
National Congress , which was led by Mr. Kaunda
He cited cases in which hundreds of UNIP supporters
the UNIP - were convicted last month in the
charges of creating disturbances . During the first
had been arrested or convicted since last year on
than 500 people - 167 of them members of
three weeks of the present trouble 287 incidents
had been reported in Northern Rhodesia . More
Northern Province alone .
Kaunda's repeated statements that all he is
Sir Roy . " I am now compelled to say that
had stimulated violence , but he had done
" Against this background must be taken Mr.
doing is in the name of non-violence , " said
nothing to stop it .
Mr. Kaunda must know that his statements
I don't accept his good faith . " He said
from Northern Rhodesia when his followers have
would make the Mau Mau in Kenya " seem like a
" It is true he made a point of again being absent
child's picnic . "
indulged in such violence . " But Sir Roy pointed out
if UNIP did not get its way what would happen
that a few months ago Mr. Kaunda said that
return from Scotland yesterday . He summoned Mr.
new Constitution provided law and order is maintained
JOHN DICKIE writes : Mr. Macmillan gave top
in Northern Rhodesia .
to hold the door open for modifications to the
Iain Macleod , Colonial Secretary , and Mr. Duncan Sandys ,
priority to the clash over Northern Rhodesia on his
at Admiralty House . A statement is expected today
Commonwealth Relations Secretary for an hour's talks
African nationalists . Mr. Macleod has ample evidence
Liberal leader , and Mr. Kaunda , that the bulk
problem . Mr. Sandys has warned of the risk of a
suggestion that there may be fresh concessions to the
Constitution unless it is modified .
of moderates and Africans will reject the
from talks with Sir John Moffat , Northern Rhodesian
strong reaction from Sir Roy Welensky to any
Its terms have set the Prime Minister an exacting
foot of his airliner's steps at London Airport
of Gloucester .
kneeling with heads bowed . The princess ,
Buganda ( King Freddie ) from Princess
aged 24 , is now studying history at Cambri-
A ROYAL welcome for the Kabaka of
yesterday . Forty other Africans greeted him ,
dge , where she is a friend of Prince William
Elizabeth Bagaya of Toro , kneeling at the
Colonial Secretary Mr. Iain Macleod , before the
to settle the relationships between them and the
King Freddie and three other hereditary rulers of
The question : Their status in an independent Uganda .
rest of the country . A Government report has
recognised their rights and recommended a form of
native kingdoms in Uganda arrived for talks with
The thorniest problem for next week's conference is
Uganda Constitutional conference opens next Monday .
federal association , but the four kings are not
Government authority yet presented by the
to deal with the mass sit-down rally planned
Committee of 100 , the anti-nuclear arms
to meet head-on the biggest challenge to
" Ban-the-Bomb " demonstrators . Police leave
Instead , the kings will remain in London
group .
for Sunday in Parliament-square by the
Then their views will be transmitted back .
has been cancelled and secret plans prepared
and wait to hear the conference's proposals .
MR. BUTLER , the Home Secretary , has decided
jailed for a month .
a breach of the peace . The committee's
his 61-year-old wife were each jailed for
Committee of 100 being imprisoned for inciting
president 89-year-old Earl Russell and
and Robert Bolt ( The Flowering Cherry ) were
a week . Playwrights Arnold Wesker ( The Kitchen )
ended yesterday in 32 members of the
It was Mr. Butler who authorised action which
invoke the Public Order Act , 1936 , and
It was last used a year ago , to deal
of Parliament Square . "
Mr. Butler will have talks with Police
the demonstrators sit down or not - was
with the St. Pancras rent riots . Today
declare the whole rally illegal - whether
being discussed in Whitehall last night .
Commissioner Sir Joseph Simpson to
The possibility that the Government might
draw up final plans for the " Battle
and reserves , with 750 policemen posted
the area - West End Central , Bow-street ,
call-out of police , special constables
and Cannon-row .
from outlying districts to stations in
Measures agreed so far include : 1 . A mass
been # particularly intensified in the past year
in the United Nations , these exchanges have not
is known for some time to have favoured a
or so and though so far , apart from joint action
nesia arrived in Belgrade as the guest of the Yugoslav
been seen on any wider basis , President Tito
Today , for example , the Foreign Minister of Indo-
Foreign Minister . In fact such Yugoslav activity has
conference of neutralist leaders .
on the occasion of the conference in Casablanca and ,
in particular , in Yugoslav approval of the idea of an
coordinate activity on the political and economic
Tito would like some such idea extended also
sphere ; and it is not difficult to see that President
to the whole uncommitted world
inter-African consultative assembly which would
The wish was particularly apparent in comments
time is ripe to have more frequent consultations between
the uncommitted countries and even to work out common
situation and especially in view of fresh problems facing
stands on various problems facing those nations . Two
the new and independent countries of Africa , that the
of the talks in Belgrade - and on both the two
subjects , the Congo and Algeria , are the main topics
But he now feels , in view of a changed international
leaders have identical ideas .
was reported earlier in Laos that Prince
Government .
Souvanna Phouma , the former Prime Min-
Prince Souvanna Phouma to join his
ister , to return to Laos . No details of
Phnom Penh , Cambodia , to invite Prince
Boun Oum was considering asking
their mission have been disclosed , but it
Two emissaries from the Laotian Government
of Prince Boun Oum have arrived in
Laos . His policy of strict neutrality from 1951
pro-western centre and south .
to 1958 kept the kingdom in peace , though
at the cost of virtual partition of the country
the mission , but recent statements made by him
himself as the only legal Prime Minister of
into the pro-communist north and the
Prince Souvanna Phouma has not yet replied to
in Phnom Penh indicate that he still regards
Haksat Party , also to the officers
Prince Souphannouvong , leader
occupying the province of Xieng
Laos , yesterday addressed all officers
Prince Souvanna's former Minister of
claims to be his representative in
of the pro-communist Neo Lao
in the same terms .
of the pro-communist forces
Khouang and emphasized that
Information , Mr. Quinim Pholsena , who
Government suggests that all is not well
communists' former base 60 miles
of the pro-communists . Most of the
with the political and military leadership
The Government has claimed the
province of Xieng Khouang and the
This emphasis on the legality of the former
appear still to be firmly in their hands .
tactically useful Plain of Jars , however ,
recapture of Vang Vieng , the pro-
north of Vientiane , but this claim
160 speeches in 80 constituencies in 10 days , the Liberal
Party are holding a national conference here with
and # his Cabinet out in the grass roots making
leader .
this village was still held by the pro-communists .
A correspondent who travelled yesterday to within
when Mr. Lester Pearson was chosen as party
With the Prime Minister sunning himself in Jamaica
some 2,000 delegates , the biggest gathering since 1958
a few miles of Vang Vieng was told by officers that
In some ways it will be a testing occasion
ference will concentrate on laying the
foundations on which to win the next
else in sight to supplant him . So the con-
ments by the Prime Minister there is an
air of electoral expectancy .
unassailable simply because there is no one
when in spite of carefully worded state-
election . The rally comes at a time
for him , although some think his position
Members of the Cabinet are basing their speeches on
heavy unemployment and an uncertain economy .
illusion in the Conservative Party that their
a half years ago . Nevertheless there is little
a new Conservative booklet called The Record Speaks
of the party since it came to office three and
which outlines in some detail the accomplishments
stock at home has fallen in the face of
Last year saw the defeat of two Conservative
Maritimes - Restigouche Madawaska , New Brunswick ,
one in Leeds , Ontario , and the other two in the
provincial governments , Quebec and New Brunswick , and
and Kings , Prince Edward Island .
in the four federal by-elections last October the party
elections , one at Esquimalt Saanich , British Columbia ,
fared badly . They are now faced with four other by-
All four were Conservative strongholds . Last September
held last autumn , 38 per cent for the
the Administration came to power in 1957 the
Liberals were ahead ( 43 per cent were in favour
a public poll showed that for the first time since
Conservatives and 12 per cent for the C.C.F. ) .
of " The Grits " if a federal election had been
Diefenbaker was still ahead in terms of
popularity as an individual leader ( for
However , a separate poll revealed that Mr.
Pearson 34 per cent ) . How far is Mr.
of Canada as a Prime Minister ? Many
observers at the national rally will be
seeking an answer .
Mr. Diefenbaker 36 per cent , for Mr.
Lester Pearson acceptable to the people
in Algoma East .
baker was in the last two campaigns . The
It is difficult for many to see Mr. Pearson
in the chancery , or the corridors of the United
impression remains that the Liberal leader
Nations , not the father figure , so necessary
hustings , the spellbinder that Mr. Diefen-
politician , able to talk about sewage problems
is still the diplomatist , more at home
in Canadian leadership , or the practical
in the role of a popular orator at the
still regard him " as some sort of cross
correct that image . The bow tie has
by speech experts .
On the other hand , Mr. Pearson excels
television techniques and is being coached
His party advisers are now trying to
between an egghead and a missionary " .
in meeting people informally , but many
gone ; he is having lessons on
baker in the House in those early
leading the Opposition with skill and
ammunition given him by the Gov-
Everything is being done to promote
ernment in recent sessions , he is
much lessly trounced by Mr. Diefen-
a new image . Certainly , he is now a
assurance and is a match for the
Prime Minister across the floor .
but now , with plenty of political
days . It has been a hard road back
will go . The main topic under review is
provinces . However , be this election
year or not , Mr. Pearson , with his party
committees examining subjects
increasingly confident of return to power ,
ranging from foreign investment in
new and dynamic liberalism " and this
Mr. Pearson is now talking about " his
Canada to the problems of the Atlantic
week will # show perhaps how far " Mike
Sentence Database
unemployment , but there will be 21
as a military project ; or that the European space satellite
Stated more bluntly , they are still unconvinced that
interested in the principle of space research , but rather
this is not primarily an effort on Britain's part to
Mr. Thorneycroft , the Minister of Aviation , who arrives in
is indeed to be purely scientific in character .
Sentence Database
Bonn tomorrow for talks with the Federal Government on a
salve Blue Streak , which was abandoned last summer
sceptical about British plans for organizing it .
European space satellite project , will find the Germans
involved is really worth while , at a time when
any increase in budgetary commitments
remove these doubts , and to persuade the
Mr. Thorneycroft's main purpose will be to
rise in taxation - something no one is prepared
would almost certainly involve a corresponding
to contemplate in an election year .
Federal Government that the financial burden
efforts , as Die Welt suggests today in
convinced , on the basis of the information
believe that the Federal Government is not
But , at the same time , there is reason to
be justified from a scientific point of view ;
a highly critical editorial article .
satellite , duplicating to some extent American
and not merely constitute a " prestige "
it has so far , that such a project would
stage , but the French have one of their
have reached a sufficient stage of development
like to see used .
On the specific question of the use of Blue
putting a heavy satellite into outer space .
British rocket , Black Knight , for the second
own called Veronique which they would
for adaptation as the first stage in
only rocket and launcher in Europe to
easier . He can point out that this is the
There has also been some talk of adopting another
Streak , Mr. Thorneycroft's task will be
various rocket stages had already been
of capsule was involved . A lesser obstacle
any Ministry or Minister directly responsible
The Foreign Ministry spokesman added
today , however , that the Brussels Treaty
for it - and therefore of any budget
concluded , and only cooperation on the type
was irrelevant , because research on the
under which funds could be appropriated .
to German participation is the absence of
the backbone of the German Air
This is expected eventually to replace the
Fiat G-91 , and the F 104 Starfighter ,
Force .
three hours , 20 minutes of discussion is believed
PRESIDENT KENNEDY renewed his pressure
House , Whitehall , yesterday . Much of their
of American policy .
Common Market during their talks at Admiralty
on Mr. Harold Macmillan to join the
to have been devoted to this main point
It arose during talks following
and other reservations .
President Kennedy's report to the British
clear that he would accept Britain into the
visit to Paris . There General de Gaulle had made
Common Market only if there were no conditions
laid down to meet the Commonwealth
Prime Minister of the outcome of his recent
Bundy , the President's special assistant for
Market , even if it meant an unconditional surrender .
wanted him to apply for membership of the Common
Mr. Kennedy told Mr. Macmillan that he still
There were also brief discussions on Laos , Berlin
Krushchov . With the exception of 40 minutes when
informed Mr. Macmillan of his discussions with Mr.
and other foreign questions , after Mr. Kennedy had
security affairs , were brought in , the two
men talked alone .
Lord Home , Foreign Secretary , and Mr. McGeorge
talks with Mr. Krushchov this evening .
Admiralty House meeting will be made in the
for a statement . President Kennedy flew from London
Airport last night to arrive in Washington this
An attempt to get more information about the
have many questions to the Prime Minister asking
broadcast and television report on his
House of Commons this afternoon . Labour M.P.s already
morning . He is to make a 30-minute nation-wide
economic co-operation and expansion in the general interests
common purposes . " Occasion was given to review the need for
both economic and political , and revealed once again the
close agreement of the two Governments in pursuing their
Washington - said : " Their discussions covered the major problems ,
The joint communique on Mr. Kennedy's and Mr. Macmillan's
third talks - the first were at Key West , Florida , the second in
of developed and underdeveloped countries alike . "
which should lead to progress toward a Laos agreement at the
It said that the President and Premier noted " with satisfaction " the
Geneva conference . " Particular attention was also given to the
agreement in Vienna on the need for an effective Laos ceasefire ,
agreement on the necessity of maintaining the rights and
obligations of the allied Governments in Berlin . "
nuclear tests conference and to the question of disarmament . " The
situation in regard to Germany was reviewed , and there was full
given by Lady Dorothy Macmillan with Mrs. Kennedy and other
" rather pessimistic " and talked of a Berlin crisis later this year .
Apart from their formal Admiralty House talks , followed by lunch
State , gave a 90-minute briefing on the Vienna talks to the
15-nation Nato council . Some of his listeners said he was
guests present , Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Macmillan met three more
times yesterday . In PARIS , Mr. Dean Rusk , U.S. Secretary of
said the Vienna talks " might be the beginning of a slight improvement , "
in London in time to join the Buckingham Palace dinner and to
but no big changes should be expected in the political situation .
and informed him of the Vienna outcome . Last night Mr. Rusk arrived
fly home with the President . In DUESSELDORF , Chancellor Adenauer
From Nato headquarters Mr. Rusk went to see President de Gaulle
Moscow after his two days of talks with President
spirits , Mr. Krushchov yesterday returned to
followed up by new efforts for peace , the
Kennedy , writes Dennis Ogden from Moscow . The
declared yesterday . Events in Vienna " gave hope
Soviet Communist Party newspaper Pravda
and to all who are striving for a stable peace , "
good beginning made at Vienna must be
RELAXED , smiling and clearly in the best of
to people of goodwill who hate the cold war ,
of Indonesian students broke through crash barriers
to surround their President on the tarmac for
arrived from Vienna . A cheering , delighted crowd
Dr. Sukarno , President and Prime Minister of
airport to join President Brezhnev in welcoming
Indonesia , who arrived by Boeing 707 jet on a
meeting , peace-loving people will say ' a
state visit 40 minutes after Mr. Khrushchov had
good beginning . ' " Mr. Krushchov remained at the
" Thinking over the results of the Vienna
establish an enduring peace between nations . "
" The Soviet Union has always striven and is
Mr. Khrushchov said he hoped his weekend
the peoples , to secure an early solution of the
Schaerf , the Soviet Premier thanked Austria for
In VIENNA , before flying off to Moscow ,
Replying to a farewell speech from Austrian President
striving to safeguard an enduring peace for
the hospitality and welcome he had received .
talks with President Kennedy would # help " to
implication he supported the establishment of
defence of the Polaris missile base . And by
weapons were necessary to defend Britain , that
sites in Britain for the training of German
must have nuclear weapons so long as the
MR. GAITSKELL today delivered a full-blooded
Britain must depend on Nato and " the West "
troops . His main theme was that nuclear
Soviet Union has them .
widespread resentment over the U.S. Polaris base in
their tactics by switching most of their emphasis on
sure the Labour movement was coming round in
of General and Municipal Workers , he said he felt
to the missile .
Addressing the annual congress of the National Union
supporters of unilateral nuclear disarmament were changing
support of his views . Obviously conscious of the fierce and
Britain , Mr. Gaitskell said that he even noticed that
he said , they were out of date and vulnerable and
allied . But governments should be free to negotiate
agree . The Labour Party opposed Thor missiles , because ,
and refuse proposals with which they did not
Mr Gaitskell said that a member of an alliance could
would attract enemy action .
not deny facilities to nations to which it was
was far better for a weapon used for retaliatory
This was why the Labour Party did not think it right
the West , somewhere , must have them too . It
to oppose the Polaris depot ship .
That argument did not apply to the Polaris submarine .
So long as the Soviet Union had nuclear weapons ,
purposes to be under the sea rather than on land .
in a more remote area . Mr. Gaitskell added that
city with two million people . It should be sited
of party members and still less the party's
The party agreed that it was unwise to locate the base
supporters in the country .
in the Holy Loch , only 30 miles from Glasgow , a
the Scarborough conference decisions did not , in his
view , truly reflect the opinions of the majority
that " those who organise these things " were
Mr Gaitskell added that agreement with the
he respected their views . He saw by reports
to the official document on to opposition
disarmament to shift the emphasis of
to the Polaris base .
recommending the supporters of unilateral nuclear
their intervention away from straight opposition
unilateralists was not possible , though
Prime Minister should begin to take
with the agreement of Kennedy , in
To Mr. Macmillan , Mr Gaitskell said the
in central Europe of a zone of controlled
talks with the Soviet Union , for the establishment
weapons within the Nato alliance . " Let us say
to Macmillan that he should press , I hope
seriously the danger of the spread of nuclear
disarmament . "
opportunity for the party . It was a
an agreement on a zone of controlled
disarmament in Europe . Mr Gaitskell
Union would be prepared to reach
He thought , he said , that the Soviet
Inter-union jealousies prevent the
was the beginning of a great period of
and other major questions , Mr. Jack Cooper
fulfilment of a common policy for wages
great chance that should be grasped .
concluded , declaring that the present
matter . Consideration should also be given
modification of their structures to
to the regrouping of unions and the
The General Council of the Trades Union
meet the growing concentration of
urgent - particularly in unions serving
Congress should therefore consider the
capital . Mr. Cooper argued that a
common industrial contribution was
workers in the same industry - along
Macmillan yesterday morning he was given
BEFORE President Kennedy met Mr.
the views of a wide section of the
bases in this country . An open letter
Suggesting that a total T.U.C.
membership of eight million was a " poor
written by Earl Russell hoping that the
show " compared with some countries , he
British people about Polaris submarine
argued that the position needed examination .
Earl Russell , President of the Committee
growing section which is opposed to
already there have been protests but
British territory . " He pointed out that
that " very much larger protests are to
be expected and are being planned . "
the establishment of a Polaris base ,
take notice of " that very large and
of 100 , told Kennedy that he should
whether at Holy Loch or elsewhere on
regrettable , that the agitation against
There are three kinds of reasons that justify
to the policy of the United States .
the Polaris base has generated some antagonism
the U.S. Government , Earl Russell suggested . " The
U.S. and Great Britain , not only in Government
the protests and these should carry weight with
says it is inevitable , though profoundly
serving the hitherto cordial relations between the
first of these reasons is the importance of pre-
circles , but in public opinion . " Earl Russell
of Polaris submarines . " He argues that
exercise any degree of control over the action
as to the safety of the people of Great Britain ;
impossible for the British authorities to
The second reason is concerned with doubts
Britain alone .
there is a distinct possibility that so long
Soviet Union might retaliate against
as there is a Polaris base in Britain the
" in the time of crisis it would probably be
add anything to the strength of America ,
believes : " It is very questionable whether
the course of , at the most , an hour " without
while , on the contrary , they impose upon
British membership of Nato and British
America an onerous obligation which it
destroy the whole population of Britain in
provoking American retaliation . Earl Russell
may prove impossible to fulfil . "
" Such retaliation might , and probably would ,
permission of American bases on our territory
The third reason is that the supreme
prevention of nuclear war . " A rapidly
in preventing a nuclear war as a neutral
West and uncommitted nations - is the
growing body of opinion in this country
interest for the whole world - East and
by helping to suggest agreements which could
be accepted by both East and West . "
believes that Britain could be more effective
would be " integrated " to a greater
about 400,000 men . The three Services
Services . Its aim will be to produce superbly
be published in March , is likely to
THE next White Paper on defence , to
contain a five-year plan for the three
equipped , all-Regular forces of
extent than ever before .
with the Prime Minister's approval .
and operations . This would apply also in the
not contemplated , the Navy , Army and Royal
command structure and central administrative
organisation . Mr. Watkinson , Minister of Defence ,
Air Force would become , for practical purposes ,
complete co-operation at all levels in training
has been working on the plan for some months ,
a single defence force . There would be
Short of wearing the same uniform , which is
are now being worked out by the Chiefs
Ministers concerned with overseas aspects
of Staff , a process that may take four
Ministers . He has also had talks with the Earl
of Home , Foreign Secretary , and with other
of defence policy . Details of the scheme
or five months .
He has had numerous meetings with the Service
approval . Mr. Watkinson remains con-
The scheme will be subject to Cabinet
of Defence , is still correct . This was to
vinced that the policy initiated in
return to the tradition of all-Regular
1957 , in Mr. Sandys's time as Minister
voluntary forces , with the last National
of 1962 .
Serviceman out of uniform by the end
cannot be entirely discounted , he does
not agree that the point has been reached
He is confident the aim can be achieved .
While the possibility of an eventual return
engagement would probably have to be for
National Service is ever resorted to ,
The Minister regards the recent trend
where this need even be considered . If
to National Service in some form
three years .
of recruiting figures as encouraging .
Service , or over any other aspect of
no truth in suggestions that Mr. Watkinson
serve at least a year overseas . There is
is at odds with the Service chiefs over
necessary for the extended training modern
the decision to dispense with National
It is thought this would be the minimum
defence policy .
arms require and to enable each man to
Criticisms about Army manpower appear
to have come mainly from retired officers
Francis Festing , who believes completely
Sir Francis , is equally convinced Mr.
Gen. Sir Richard Hull , who is to succeed
who have held high positions but
Watkinson is right .
Mr. Watkinson has had the utmost support
from the C.I.G.S. , Field-Marshal Sir
are out of touch with the existing situation .
in the principle of an all-Regular army .
his leave .
Sir Francis is to hand over to Sir Richard
concentrated on possible need for important
moment # when attention had to be
as from Nov. 1 . The hand-over , due in
Berlin crisis . Mr. Watkinson and his advisers
Francis stayed on , and # sacrificed
military operations . For this reason Sir
felt the change would be unwise at a
September , was delayed because of the
the House . Early results in yesterday's
There was a computed 8.4 per cent. swing
the Prime Minister . This implies the dis-
fontein and the Transvaal , with slightly
Lawrence , standing as a Progressive , was
returned in their strongholds , like Bloem-
appearance of the Progressive party from
increased majorities . In the Cape , the
veteran United Party politician , Mr. Harry
general election showed Nationalists being
towards the Nationalist party of Dr. Verwoerd ,
Progressive party , Dr. Steytler , in Port
Mr. Plewman , left the Progressives deprived
afterwards by the United party candidate ,
dates are unopposed .
The contests were for 86 seats as 70
The defeat of the leader of the
the Leader of the Opposition , Sir de
Elizabeth South , announced immediately
Nationalists and 20 United party candi-
of both their chief figures . Dr. Verwoerd and
Villiers Graaff , have been returned unopposed .
evident that voters were bored by the
last night that he had considered early
the most apathetic in the country's history .
Government's frequent appeals to the electorate .
The election was the fourth in four years .
British Army of the Rhine on to a war footing .
THE Prime Minister disclosed in the Commons
Long before polling closed at 8 p.m. it was
in the Parliamentary recess whether to
mobilise reserves necessary to bring the
In most constituencies it may go down as
to do so and to recall Parliament . But
economic and political kind . Mr. Macmillan ,
principle the imposed division of Germany .
if a further deterioration in the situation
warranted such a step . It would have to be
He decided that it would be a great error
who was winding up the foreign affairs
debate , said the Government could not
accompanied by other measures of a military ,
there would be no hesitation in mobilising
be party to accepting as a matter of
Minister of State , Foreign Office , said
tests . The Council's findings would be
but we must not - and I am not - be
the Medical Research Council to reassess
earlier that the Government had asked
afraid of negotiation . " Mr. Godber ,
the fall-out position in view of the Russian
" We must not be rattled into surrender ,
made public .
that # appeasement over Berlin could
the surest way to avert it .
Eden , in his maiden speech in the House
With a vigour and authority which delighted
only lead to war . To stand firm , he
the Earl of Avon , the former Sir Anthony
old Parliamentary friends and foes alike ,
declared , was not to invite war , but
of Lords last night , gave a warning
Asia .
nuclear tests ; the canard about British
speech in which Mr. Macmillan wound up
accent of urgency . He passed in rapid
tone , and his voice never rose to any
He began in a low , almost chatty mono-
It was the end of a rather curious
the two-day debate on foreign affairs .
review the United Nations Secretariat ;
interference with the United Nations
in the Congo ; Kuwait ; and South-East
He spent most of his short half-hour on
Britain could not be a party to an imposed
division . But negotiation , as the debate had
final and irrevocable division of Germany .
some " new myth " about betrayal of Germany
shown , could be undertaken on a variety
by the Allies . " We do not , " he said , " really
certain that they wanted to establish a
know what the Russians want . " But he was
of bases .
Berlin . He deplored the possibility of
necessary to bring the British Army of the Rhine
would have created a thoroughly unde-
by proclamation , such as would be
sirable atmosphere of panic . He thought
that the situation was rather more
on to a fully active footing . That
Mr. Macmillan explained that he had deliber-
ately refrained during the summer from
hopeful .
recalling Parliament or ordering mobilisation
remarkable degree of sub-normality .
than about substance . The Prime Minister's
at any time rose to fever pitch , to a
temperature of the debate , which never
of Home , Foreign Secretary , was listening
in the Peers' Gallery .
Throughout Mr. Macmillan's speech the Earl
The Russians now realised its seriousness . The
attitude of studied calm brought down the
French doubts were more about procedure
State , Foreign Office , as " pedantic and
severely rated the speech of his predecessor .
censured by Mr. Shinwell , former Labour
Defence Minister , for having read the
These strictures were all too well justified .
of Mr. Healey , " Shadow " Foreign Secretary ,
described by Mr. Godber , Minister of
We started with the plaintive wailings
obscure on Berlin , damaging and obscure
The early speakers in the debate each
on the Congo . " In turn , Mr. Godber was
The trouble about such debates is that
Healey had another tilt at the Prime Minister's
in which all the boys were welcome to
early stages of to-night's debate . Mr.
golf-course Press conference , which he
they range too widely . They remind one of
business " removed their jackets . Not many
the Rugby match in " Tom Brown's Schooldays , "
metaphorical braces were visible in the
described as " a display of flabby and
take part , and only those who " really meant
theme of limitation of armaments in Europe .
prohibition of the production of atomic
establish in these territories .
from Mr. Ellis Smith ( Lab. , Stoke on Trent S. ) .
A reference to the reunification of Germany
This could , he suggested , be linked with
brought a bark of " Start another war ! "
weapons in any part of Europe . Inspection
Then Mr. Healey launched out on his pet
and control would be much easier to
rebuked the unaligned nations for not
bingo-parlour . "
the temple of their religion is the
the Government , said Mr. Healey , to
using double standards . Ministers had
Mr. Healey denounced the Government for
events in Angola or Algeria . It was not for
condemning the new Russian tests , but
take up moral attitudes , " especially when
they themselves had no condemnation for
night by his leader , Mr. Gaitskell . Mr.
religion as had failed to detect this cult .
limited success . He rallied behind him
Godber's performance merited all the mild
scorn heaped on it by Mr. Shinwell .
This puzzled such students of comparative
But Mr. Healey had a partial and
the Left-wing opinion so coolly snubbed last
the council's findings would be published .
Government had asked the Medical Research
Sahara on the grounds that they were
He was not so happy in his defence of
France for her nuclear tests in the
the Government's failure to condemn
Council to reassess the fall-out position in
True , he did tell the House that the
only little ones .
view of the Russian tests , and said that
Thomas , M.P. for Leicester N.E. , a former
brief . He resembles the elephant seal , an
# otherwise endearing creature whose
Labour Solicitor-General , and Mrs. Barbara
through a cliche-ridden Foreign Office
articulation is limited , we are told , to a
This was too reminiscent of the nursemaid
and her illegitimate baby . For the most
part , Mr. Godber muttered his way
series of heavy sighs . Sir Lynn Ungoed-
of the Campaign for Nuclear
A personal letter of protest against the
atmosphere as a crime against humanity . "
of them Left-wing # sympathisers .
# Khruschev , was also taken to the
Russian Embassy .
tests from Canon Collins , chairman
It condemned " the pollution of the world's
Disarmament , addressed to Mr.
It was signed by 60 Labour M.P.s , many
on disarmament .
Lobby of the House of Commons last
night and formed a queue stretching
bomb demonstrators thronged the Central
A POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT writes : Ban-the-
in Old Palace Yard . About 2,000
lobbied M.P.s and harangued them
for more than 200 yards outside
to deal in his next regular Budget with
to catch speculators in shares and property .
MR SELWYN LLOYD may speed up his plans
some profits which now escape tax .
Lloyd said on # Tuesday that he proposed
dramatically in the Commons yesterday . Mr
public opinion over his " July Budget " came
The first hint of the Chancellor bowing to
Government does not like retrospective legislation .
companies and put one property deal through
people the Chancellor hopes to tax . These
and property dealers who form a chain of
to the Treasury , said yesterday that the
are people buying and selling shares within
Sir Edward Boyle , Financial Secretary
a short period , those " stagging " on a new issue
each .
He went on to describe the kind of
was speaking , the Prime Minister and Mr. Lloyd
had a whispered conversation .
it an Autumn Budget . You can call it a Taxation
legislation . " Why don't you make proposals to legislate
in the autumn ? " Mr. Wilson asked . " We wouldn't call
Mr. Harold Wilson , Shadow Chancellor , jumped up to
Management Bill , if you like . " While Mr. Wilson
offer the Government an easy passage for such
Mr. Wilson's offer in mind . Guy Eden writes :
" commit suicide " at the TUC's
FRANK FOULKES , Communist president
Treasury experts are already working on
quick in-and-out speculator deals .
They nodded at each other and Sir Edward
invitation .
in industry will not be affected , but only
the scheme . Profits of genuine investors
of the ETU , refused yesterday to
rose to say that the Chancellor would bear
ETU. In reply to the call for his resignation he said : " Our rules
I should commit hara-kiri .
say that if an official resigns he is not allowed to run again
for three years . " I have only 2 1/2 years to go before I retire ,
He was announcing his executive's rejection of the ultimatum to the
so this is an invitation from my good friends of the TUC that
years ; Sub-committees set up to strip
secretary John Byrne of his powers must
disband in ten days . These the ETU
The other TUC demands : Five leading
Communists must not hold office for five
committees .
and " unwarranted " interference . " But it
agreed to postpone operation of the sub-
executive rejected as " wholly unacceptable "
The small rocket craft , for destroying big
20 years they will have free food , housing , light ,
to the preparations for launching their
Leningrad were thousands now told that in
heat , transport and medical treatment - all
rockets . Applauding on the river banks at
for a working week of 34 to 36 hours .
ships , are controlled automatically , even
Union can be seen here - a truly inspiring
and proud sight , " said Moscow radio's
Commons of his momentous
the Communist " Nato . " He said rocket-
the basis of the Soviet Navy . MR.
MACMILLAN'S announcement in the
forces of the Warsaw Pact countries -
" The whole naval might of the Soviet
commentator . The parade was reviewed by
Marshal Andrei Grechko , commanding the
carrying atomic submarines now formed
and added : " It is the most disastrous thing any Prime
Minister has done for many , many generations . " He
concluded : " The best service the Prime Minister can do
all parties . Even close friends were signalling Mr. Fell
would be to resign . " The outburst shocked MPs of
Mr. Anthony Fell ( Yarmouth ) called the decision " shocking "
to stop .
down . A few minutes later , Mr. Fell got up
all parts of the Conservative side . Mr.
waved his hand at Mr. Fell .
minutes later to stand just inside the
middle of the amazing scene , Mr. Macmillan
Fell appeared to be in tears as he sat
There were loud cries of " shame " from
and left the chamber . He returned five
doorway looking more composed . In the
to sit down by the Prime Minister . " Protests had been expected
the effect on one former supporter that he now thinks this Prime
accused the Prime Minister of " political double talk . " " It had
Minister is a national disaster , " he said .
This seemed to infuriate Mr. Fell even more . " I cannot be told
from Tory rebels . But Mr. Fell's attack was unprecedented . He
opposition , which will be aired in the
debate tomorrow and on Thursday .
anything , rallied support to the Prime Minister .
This apparently , was Mr. Macmillan's assessment .
Most MPs agreed that Mr. Fell's attack had , if
that Mr. Fell had probably " maximised his
of such ferocity . But there was ample
support . " There were no other attacks
He confined his reply to the observation
evidence of Conservative and Labour
Government's intention :
of our European Free Trade Association partners
Community without prior negotiation with a view
Government could join the European Economic
and of British agriculture . " Near the end of a
House was crowded . He said : " No # British
to meeting the needs of the Commonwealth countries ,
long statement , Mr. Macmillan stated the
As Mr. Macmillan made his announcement , the
" Shame . " Mr. Williams is a close
conclusion that it would be right for
Britain to make a formal application . .
" After long and earnest consideration , Her
the Community . " At this point , Mr. Paul
Williams ( Cons. , Sunderland ) called out
associate of Mr. Fell .
for negotiations with a view to joining
Majesty's Government have come to the
behind the Serjeant at Arms' chair .
raised by Tory critics . Mr. Anthony Fell ,
He claimed that , unless we were in the
Monday , took up a position almost hidden
play any part in # determining its future .
who created a scene on this point on
Common Market , we should not be able to
Mr. Macmillan dealt with the main objection
" We can lead better from within , " he said .
he said .
Common Market . " The Community
( Common Market ) has imparted an
to The Six . Above all , it is an idea
tribute to the development of the
Market than by isolation . He paid
impetus and an economic growth
to the Commonwealth through the
which has gripped men's minds , "
strength we would gain in the Common
Mr. Macmillan said we could be more help
probably gain . " Many people feel we have had , perhaps , too
Mr. Reginald Maudling . " These were negotiations in which the
President of the Board of Trade played a conspicuous part , " the
swamped by cheap labour . Our industry , he said , would
Referring to previous negotiations , Mr. Macmillan looked towards
Premier said . He dismissed the idea that Britain would be
much shelter , " he went on .
Minister that I do not think
federalism in Europe , " he went
retorted . " I agree with the Prime
we are necessarily bound for
Mr. Gaitskell said he had been
of considerable authority , " he
on .
Conservatives protested when
told this " by some # people
food subsidies would probably be
season moves into top gear .
BUDGETTE or no Budgette YOU are
replaced by a system of tariffs " That
all-time peak .
will mean a rise in the cost of living . "
the spending spree is at a new
If we joined the Common Market , our
spending more as the summer holiday
On the eve of August Bank Holiday
Now look at the other side of all
sixth successive week - this
Note circulation soared for the
these coins .
100,000,000 more than the corresponding
time by more than 15,000,000 # last
week . And that brought the figure
week last year and 37,000,000 up on
the 1960 record set last Christmas .
to a record 2,415,000,000 . This was
form of special deposits with the Bank of England .
stricter in recalling existing overdrafts . This is underlined in
difficult to arrange a loan or overdraft . And banks will be
the Central Bank's weekly return ... ... which shows that more
The big " squeeze " means that it is going to be more
than 163,000,000 of the banks' money is now frozen in the
instalment of almost 8,000,000
this year . "
MR. KRUSCHEV raises the bogy of
in response to the Budgette appeal .
by September 20 . For nearly a year
About another 70,000,000 is due
about 150,000,000 has been frozen .
Banks have paid in a first
German militarism in his replies to
the West on Berlin . And he repeats
that the problem " must be solved
forces and arms to touch off a world war .
treaty with Germany causes no real danger . West Germany ,
West Germany were published in Moscow yesterday . They
hotbed of war danger in Europe . Even now , aided by
with its militarists and revenge-seekers , is becoming a
the U.S. , Britain and France , it has more than enough
The Notes to the Big Three and a memorandum to
tell : The U.S. - It is false to say the absence of a peace
put at the disposal of those very militarists who razed
cities . FRANCE - One can hardly conceive the French are
generals and officers .
not alarmed ... . Next door , in West Germany , before everyone's
eyes there has sprung up a regular army led by former Nazi
BRITAIN - One cannot but wonder at British bases being
Coventry and barbarously bombed London and other British
contingency would be to sign a peace treaty to remove the cancerous
determination and tramples on Tunisians' right to independence .
realization that West Germany would not survive even a few hours
With fire and sword France denies Algeria the right to self-
growth of West Berlin's occupation status .
of a third world war . The best way to rule out such a tragic
WEST GERMANY - Russia would like to see a clear #
DURING MONDAY NIGHT . And officials
West Germany . REFUGEES are pouring out
3,000 a day .
expect the total to leap to
Berlin faster than ever . Mr. K's latest
# of East Germany into West
determination is the intention to impose
Behind Bonn's slogan of German self-
on East Germany the regime existing in
speech scared 1,157 East Germans to
cross into West Berlin's reception centre
East German disturbances on July 17 , 1953 . And officials
fear it may be too much for the city's refugee camps .
This figure has been surpassed only on the eve of the
They will overflow and private houses will have to be used .
Commonwealth ? The issue is touch and go .
Prime Minister after Prime Minister speaks out
Conference in London . Will it end with
South Africa's exclusion from the
in revulsion against the South African
for the curtain to rise on the Commonwealth
Government's policy of apartheid as we wait
not clear-cut .
Republic later in the year . But if a final
do the strongest arguments lie ? THE Archbishop
of Capetown has shown that the matter is
wait until South Africa actually becomes a
decision is to be faced now , on which side
settled at this conference . It may be agreed to
There is a possibility that it will not be
working for a change of policy . In his view
Africans .
it would also be against the interests of the
with attention . On purely practical grounds he
holds that it would be a mistake to expel
fighter against apartheid . He must be heard
South Africa , weakening the whites who are
The Archbishop has long been a courageous
the apartheid policy .
Africa while she remains in the Commonwealth
Verwoerd and the Nationalists . They point out
On the other hand , those who favour expulsion , inclu-
than could be exercised were she cut off from it .
that Dr. Verwoerd refuses to consider abandoning
ding African leaders , feel that nothing less than the
shock of expulsion will weaken the grip of Dr.
He holds that more pressure can be put on South
a Commonwealth which had room for a racist
Whatever statesmen say at the conference table in
who is white .
policy of racial discrimination in any of its countries
which five citizens are coloured for every one
THE Commonwealth is a multi-racial society . A
South Africa . And this is a Commonwealth in
London , millions at home would regard as fraudulent
is surely the one thing that it could not survive .
apartheid is a menace to the Commonwealth and a
liability to the whole Western world . A practical
a set of principles excluding race discrimination .
solution would be for the Commonwealth to draft
Seen in this wider picture , a South Africa that clings to
or go out .
And so leave South Africa to make the grade ,
have taken the headlines in this country .
Nevertheless , the tour has been an immense
would be pleasanter if such cruel and feudal
tonight from their tour in the East . The duke's
THE Queen and the Duke of Edinburgh come home
dropped from future Royal programmes .
performances as tiger and rhino hunts were
trigger-finger and the ritual slaughter of beasts
success . The Queen has won a triumph . It
yesterday by the Dutch - has made the gesture
Pakistan are happy memories . WEST GERMANY - followed
of a good neighbour . She has put up the value
of her money .
their visit . The warmth of their welcome in India and
But the Queen and the Duke have pleased millions by
their balances , will gain some immediate help .
Germany exports will be made a little dearer .
What it means in practical terms is that our
for Germans to buy , while the goods which
in the direction of live-and-let-live . Hopes
Certainly , the rise is very small . But it is a step
co-operation , which is the only way to solve the
exports to Germany will now be a little cheaper
Britain and the U.S. , which have problems with
payments difficulties that upset the Western world .
will now grow brighter of further international
dollars have been drained into Germany .
as a means to curb rising prices at home . She is
also aware how # unpopular she has been growing
should . Germany exports much more than she imports .
by failing until now to co-operate as a creditor nation
Booming Germany is deliberately encouraging more imports
For upwards of five years the world's reserves of
Germany's massive trading surplus and choke
the strength of Germany's trading position has attracted
off speculation against dollar and pound ?
Germany has no tradition of trading abroad . In addition
hoping for the mark to rise , as has now happened .
There they have stayed uselessly locked up because
speculators to hold marks rather than pounds or dollars ,
WILL the new valuation be enough to correct
share in giving aid to underdeveloped nations , the
to optimism is the sign that Germany and the
world outlook will be brighter . What gives rise
good-neighbour gesture , Germany takes a really big
other leading Western nations are at long last
moving towards a solution of currency problems
by co-operation .
That is doubtful . If however , in addition to her new
idea that moral regeneration would solve
and our local and national Parliaments .
for by that curious body Moral Re-Armament .
of politics , perhaps , or carried away by the
all our problems . So it would . While we are
Those who lend their names to this kind of
waiting for the millenium , however , most of us
would prefer to put our hopes for earthly justice in
instruments of democracy , such as trade unions
advertisement are worthy people , a little innocent
A CURIOUS advertisement on page nine , paid
advertisement falls into neither category , though
deeply repugnant to our readers , it is right to
exercise editorial discretion . The MRA
contains statements whose factual truth is
which we disagree . When an advertisement
Should the Herald publish such advertisements ?
doubtful , or where the total content would be
many readers will dislike it .
be wrong to refuse all political advertisements with
This is a difficult question . It would obviously
Government was to denounce the United
more logical to send in more men ,
would be taken home . The reaction can be
to say that its 400 troops in the Congo
a # dignified exit . IF the UN is
not weaken it further by desertion .
The first reaction of the Sudanese
blamed for being weak , it would be
Nations for " negligence and impotence , " and
understood . The Sudan's concern for its
men is natural . But this could hardly be
Mr. Hammarskjold to use force if necessary to
responsibility rightly belongs to the nations
which have undertaken the task of pre-
serving peace in the Congo . That is not a
ceremonial duty , and the soldiers have every
It is unjust to pass the buck to Mr.
prevent civil war , it was clear that new dangers
Hammarskjold and the UN's servants . The
would arise unless it gave him the political ...
right to blame the politicians unless they see
it through . When the United Nations instructed
made . India has responded handsomely by providing
If the UN forces were thick enough on the ground ,
which have set their hands to this plough .
3,000 men , who must take about a fortnight to arrive .
That was the first point that Mr. Hammarskjold
happen . THE UN's ability to keep peace depends
simply on adequate support by the nations
such incidents as that at Matadi would not
The big Powers involved in the Cold War
It is to be hoped that the UN will be
re-established in their port by negotiation
must of course keep out . The Americans were
non-combatant help was wanted ; but they
in fighting . Yesterday the ships turned away
justified in diverting naval ships in case
again , satisfied that they were not required .
and that there will be no more outrages .
stressed that there was no intention to intervene
of UN conciliators they are meeting for
relief when this strife-torn land gets
Madagascar ) . THE world will sigh with
they must go . The best news for the Congo
the first time , in Malagasy ( formerly
itself a government which all outsiders
can recognise .
But back , Mr. Hammarskjold is determined ,
would be agreement between its rival
political leaders . Through the patient efforts
who , under apartheid , will be forced back to
really believes . A good neighbour to those Africans
policy of good neighbourliness . " We may be sure that
as a divine mission could have spoken of apartheid as " a
their tribal reserves with no prospect but a
he is not being hypocritical . That is what he
ONLY a man wrapped in the impenetrable cocoon of what he regards
cramped and primitive existence .
white stock .
Hitler in the thirties . It was Dr. Verwoerd who
A good neighbour to those Africans who will con-
that he proved to be to the Jews fleeing from
water in the white areas of South Africa , without rights
led a protest against admitting any of them
and without hope . THE same sort of good neighbour
because they would " defile " the national
tinue to live as hewers of wood and drawers of
woerd in his nightmare world . It is this that
Commonwealth . Otherwise , he says , those inside the
It is impossible to make contact with Dr. Ver-
makes illusory any hopes that he may be in-
Capetown , Dr. Joost de Blank , has pleaded that
country who still oppose apartheid will be
South Africa should be allowed to stay in the
left even more isolated and alone .
fluenced to change course . The Archbishop of
maintained an unflinching witness to what
Christianity really means , must carry weight . But
what , in fact , can the other Commonwealth countries
policy of appeasement has modified the
actions of the Nationalists . On the contrary ,
The views of the Archbishop , who has
do to bring support and comfort to this gallant
minority ? THERE is no evidence that the
apartheid is being applied ever more
ruthlessly .
step . If that is their decision they should also
way left to try to bring home to the people of
to disaster . It may be that the Commonwealth
apartheid as evil and indefensible .
Commonwealth now seems to be the only
Prime Ministers will decide against this final
South Africa that Dr. Verwoerd is leading them
go unequivocally on record that they regard
The shock of expulsion from the
without a story or a picture or probably both ,
be able to return home claiming a triumph .
marry Miss Worsley , hardly a day will pass
for it again : another Royal Wedding . Between
His smile will be blander than ever . WE are in
now and June , when the Duke of Kent will
about the nuptial arrangements .
Unless they do at least that , Dr. Verwoerd will
disposed to face . The real question is
ought to run - and greater than President
advocate putting off any approach until
what we should put to the Soviet
Kennedy's most influential advisers seem
Government as a basis for talks : and
of heart ( whatever that may mean ) would
have us run risks greater than the West
What seems certain is that those who
Mr Krushchev gives evidence of a change
On this reading what Mr. Gollancz calls
a means not to destruction but to safety .
the Northern Rhodesia Constitution is
on Northern Rhodesia does not say much ,
it by saying that the revision would be
much the Government tries to disguise
open to revision . This is news , however
but it says what is necessary - that
cool-headed and inventive negotiation , is
manoeuvring , and what we should call
The Government's pompous little statement
this likely ; Formula Two , which appeared in June , made it
principle , that is all that need be required of it . It is a pity
Formula One , which appeared in February , appeared to make
from this principle . It is a great pity that the
to Mr Kaunda's reasonable representations , but to
that the Government should ever have been led away
Government should give the appearance of responding , not
the violence which he tried to prevent .
very unlikely ; if Formula Three restores the original
and decisive ones ; but without it , we could not
look for them . Federal Germany votes tomorrow
important advance . We must not be overconfident
and not a day too soon . There can seldom have
To be able to say " New York next week " is an
and done with .
that this # meeting will lead on to further
been an election campaign which more people
in and out of the country wanted to see over
if Western Governments had not been convinced
the Berlin crisis . It need not have been such a burden
millstone weighing down and almost paralysing their
efforts to work out sensible ways of dealing with
that they must do nothing to harm even remotely Dr
To Germany's Western allies the campaign has been a
Adenauer's chances of being returned as Chancellor .
when the polling stations close .
many people : they too will be glad
But they were so convinced and they
while in Germany itself the course of
have had to take the consequences . Mean-
the campaign has dismayed a good
is not yet a unitary world .
truism that policies of menace and mutual disarmament
and it is an achievement - is to make religious con-
tact across the greatest political barrier in what
cannot be followed together . What the council has done -
But discussion on current points of east-west con-
flict could not go much farther than , for example , the
short and modest in scope , and it is doubtful whether the other Private
The notification he envisages must be given at least two days before the
agreement is signed . To this there will be some opposition . The Bill is
next report from the Molony committee .
Members' Bills in the offing will fill all the gaps . This fact may give
the Government an extra excuse for counselling patience until the
parliamentary opinion by at least allowing these Bills a fair run .
however , disdain this opportunity of obtaining a useful sample of
Comprehensive legislation is obviously preferable . They should not ,
logical Office .
Centigrade v. Fahrenheit . The fight is on . The challenger has behind
but also the backing of the DIRECTOR GENERAL of the Meteoro-
it not only the authority of the SECRETARY of STATE for AIR
fahrenheit the knock out . The backers of
ratures will be put in the ring together .
explain the advantages to the general
about it yesterday . The purpose is to give
SIR GRAHAM SUTTON , however , made no bones
public of the change .
asked to help . To begin with , both tempe-
The press and the broadcasting authorities are
start if they had taken more pains to
centigrade would have got off to a better
however , seems a matter of the convenience
the measurement of temperatures . This ,
to be put out for the sake of 50,000 is there
any reason why the centigrade countries
of specialists . The ordinary British man
It is true that SIR GRAHAM said there is
at the moment " an awful mess up " in
and woman is conscious of no difficulty .
Rather than fifty million people having
should not change to fahrenheit ?
system of recording temperatures .
public to go over to decimal coinage - in certain
suit their convenience - rather than to change their
Even then it might be easier to persuade the British
have to call up the reinforcement of the Common Market .
circumstances the time would come when this would
strably better than the other ? The centigraders may
be in for a stiffer fight than they think . They may
Can it be shown that the one scale is demon-
became very unpopular .
roped in . The only result was
that the well-meaning corporation
Once before , and that not so long ago , the
clock . Then , also , the B.B.C. were
In any case , fahrenheit need not lose heart .
the adoption of the twenty-four hour
authorities ganged up to alter the habits
of the people . That effort was to enforce
the murder of Patrice Lumumba . Her
stands at the centre of an international
storm . Belgium is accused - without a
scrap of evidence - of being implicated in
A BAFFLED and bewildered little country
leaders are insulted , her embassies are
attacked in a score of countries .
will not admit they were wrong . So
trouble in the Congo , orders every Belgian
is made their scapegoat .
citizen to quit his country . HOUNDING
has done more than most to stir up
In Ghana , President Nkrumah , who
said the Congolese could govern themselves
Belgium has become an international
troubles , mourning a terrible air crash ,
Belgium , bowed down by internal
pastime . Why ? Because those who
larders been so well stocked .
Who will speak for Belgium ? Who else but
Britain . We have fought beside Belgium
families ! Never before have Britain's
Britain should champion Belgium . Not
with the careful , hooded language of diplomacy ,
in two world wars . We are allies still .
but boldly and fearlessly . It is time to
desert her friends . HAPPY , happy
show the world that this country does not
splendid variety of goods to choose from .
substantially higher last year than in 1959 .
abundance . Now it is mother who
Supplies of meat and dairy produce were
Not so long ago older folk were reminding
picks up recipes from # her daughter .
shortages , of the good old days of
Lucky , lucky housewives ! To have such a
young wives , # harassed by
television network , N.B.C. And hour after hour it poured out its
Britain today ! " THIS is colour day , " proclaimed the American
The dinner table is the best answer to the grumblers in
programmes in bright colours . In America colour TV is five years
The B.B.C. is ready to launch a colour TV service , but the
old . There are already 600,000 sets in use . What about Britain ?
commercial TV contractors want to delay it for 10 years .
The Government should settle this argument with two words to
by the deaths of two elderly sisters who killed themselves because
Newmarket urban council , says : " I shall always feel this as a
they had to leave their cottage . Mr. John Crabb , clerk to
the B.B.C. : - Go ahead ! ONE man beyond all others is saddened
personal failure . "
sisters had to quit as their home was falling down . And Mr. Crabb
did his best for them , even driving them to a new house . John
does not want his daughter to marry a Scotsman .
There is no reason whatsoever why he should reproach himself . The
often lacking in officialdom . MR. HENRY NEWTON of Acton
Crabb has the qualities of sympathy and understanding . Too
be in England . The first ruler of the United Kingdom was a
He says that the Scots are foreigners who have no business to
Scot . The Lord Chancellor is a Scot . The Prime Minister is a
may be guilty of rebellion !
Scot - and so were four of his predecessors this # century .
Let Mr. Newton beware . By protesting against Scotland he
company will sign on again .
His ex-Eoka Government decides that Cyprus will join it for
safe bet that at the end of five years Makarios and
all the trading benefits of Imperial Preference . It is a
to subsidise and defend the Cypriots . They will enjoy
ARCHBISHOP MAKARIOS puts the Commonwealth on trial .
five years . During this period Britain will be expected
It is equally certain that the British Government
the British people . And tell Makarios they are not
for the week-end . Ford Motors are to put 13,000
prepared to accept him on such terms . GOOD cheer
men back on a five-day week .
will welcome them . How splendid it would be if , just
for once , the Government were to voice the real feelings of
springtime approaches , orders pick up . And the car men get
ready for another bustling season . The pessimists
proved right . EARL RUSSELL and his friends have
hit on an original way of spending this afternoon .
One more demonstration of the industry's recovery . As
said the motor industry was on its knees . The optimists
said " Nonsense . " As usual , the optimists have been
They intend to sit outside the Ministry of Defence . It is
their protest against the H-bomb . They ought to have a
Whitehall should be deserted . And they will have a fine view
of St. James's Park , with its placid lake , pelicans ,
pleasant time . The weather forecast is good ; except for them ,
rare ducks , and other wild life .
in an extra two or three evenings . And they never
Head for the parks to enjoy the sun . Not in
a foolish cause , but in a glorious one . Good health !
go on strike .
THIS group of men , says a report , work on average
Why not follow Lord Russell's lead today ?
between 55 and 60 hours a week . They also put
employers . THE Labour Party says that the Tory
Who are they ? The trade union officials of Britain .
labour market . The unions are fortunate indeed to
Men who earn only a fraction of what their
time the members decided to pay up and be good
Government is destroying the social services .
talents and responsibilities could bring in the open
find dedicated leaders at cut-rate prices . But it is
whose husband made her clean his uniform , wins
national income was spent on social services . The
as a serf .
worthwhile targets for the Opposition . What a pity
present figure is 19.5 per cent. There are many
a divorce . The judge says she had to act almost
Under the Labour Government 18.1 per cent of the
to aim at the wrong one ! MRS. MARCIA POWER ,
they would never behave like that . But do they ever
box of chocolates or a bunch of flowers !
returned to the shed ; their books tidied ; and often ,
Up and down the country husbands will be saying
even their shoes cleaned ? How wonderful if they
showed their appreciation this morning with a surprise
ponder how their gardening tools are mysteriously
Secretary . Suddenly everything changed . Timetables were
Federal Government were getting valuable experience in
administration . Then Mr. Iain Macleod became Colonial
scrapped . The ill-conceived Monckton Commission was
politicians were inflated into international figures .
in Rhodesia ! Eighteen months ago this territory
HOW the Government must repent its haste and folly
was peaceful , orderly , and thriving . Africans within the
rushed out to Rhodesia . Overnight , minor African
No wonder there is doubt and fearful heart-searching .
TODAY , in London , that rash and thoughtless policy has
difficulties from African politicians greedy for power .
of change , so the Africans stepped up their demands .
caused a crisis - a crisis that never should have happened .
Africans control in Northern Rhodesia it may indeed face
If the Government now reverses its plan to give the
And as the British Government stepped up the pace
fastest ? That is the exciting competition going on
Macmillan and his ministers there is no choice . They
But if it fails to modify that plan Rhodesia may well
among Britain's major industries .
repair the damage they have done . WHO can grow the
be plunged into chaos , like the Congo . For Mr.
must safeguard Rhodesia against chaos . And try to
factory building this year is likely to be 40 per cent
their faith with cash .
Top of the table , at the moment , is the chemical industry .
up on 1960 . Britain's business men are right to back
tremendous upsurge in investment . It reports that new
Even the staid and timid Treasury is cheered by the
Then comes engineering , followed by iron and steel .
the 88-year-old standard bearer of the Ban-
prosperity tomorrow . BERTRAND RUSSELL ,
issues of our time .
the-Bomb crusade , has devoted following .
too . It is said by some that he is a saint ; by
others that he is a prophet . He is , in fact , a
For expansion today means still greater
philosopher with a highly developed sense of publicity
who has been spectacularly wrong on the great
Thousands march with him - and sit with him
that freedom last if their policies were adopted ?
to welcome Hitler's troops as tourists .
After the war he favoured a preventive war against
defences . Throughout the years Lord Russell
and his supporters have been able to pursue their
Russia . Now he wants Britain to demolish her
ask themselves this question : How long would
eccentric campaigns in freedom . They should
BEFORE the war he urged the British people
has been appointed to smooth out difficulties for
Happy patrolling , Mr. Finlay !
householders when trenches are dug outside their
mile route in Surrey . A warden , Mr. Jack Finlay ,
front gates . Splendid . By showing concern
AN experiment in courtesy is launched by the Electricity
Board . The board is laying a cable along a seven-
for the people the board will earn their good will .
resolute Premier of the Rhodesian Federation
shakes the life out of his critics . He calls them
Welensky justified in being so harsh to those who
against African fanatics and woolly minded
disagree with him ? The facts answer that .
GOOD for Sir Roy Welensky ! The tough ,
individuals in the West . Some may ask : Is
" jelly-boned . " He promises to preserve federation
months . And what has it made of the Congo ?
CONTRAST his firm , successful rule in Rhodesia
Welensky has lost all patience with his
misguided tormentors .
into practice . There a UNO army of Africans ,
A bloodstained shambles . No wonder
bossed by an Indian , has been in charge for
with what has happened in the Congo . There
Welensky's opponents have carried their theories
Office Savings Bank shows how wrong that
to 19 .
contempt . SOME people are for ever complaining
when they get it . Now a survey of the Post
that teenagers earn too much and spend it all
They have earned his strictures . And his
idea is . The biggest group of depositors in
the bank is made of boys and girls aged 15
They say that our farmers do not seem to
that in the most prosperous days in this
farmers for fighting against Danish competition .
people . THE Danes are annoyed with British
should still have a powerful appeal for young
Certainly teenagers earn more than ever before .
Certainly they spend more . But how splendid
understand the meaning of free trade .
country's history the old-fashioned virtue of thrift
now supplanted Britain as Denmark's
by free trade . It is that they should be free
principal supplier . The farmers of Britain
There is no doubt what the Danes understand
more and more from our rivals . Germany has
it .
to sell as much as they like , while buying
understand free trade . That is why they fight
enterprises . Barry and Eric have enthusiasm . They
reopened next week by Barry Flanagan and Eric
Platt , both aged 19 . Eric says : " We believe in the
cinema . And we know what people want . " The
combination of enthusiasm and shrewd anticipation
of public taste has launched many great
THE Palace cinema at Buckley , near Chester , will be
are backed by a resurgent film industry .
most vital industry . It is increasingly dependent
Cambridge want the study of agriculture to become
provide men of knowledge and skill .
the old Palace . And Barry and Eric . DONS at
It could be curtain up on two success stories . Of
an honours degree course . Farming is Britain's
on new techniques - and on the universities to
similar course in farming for 15 years !
The older universities are often accused of being
JOHN GLENN , Virgil Grissom , Alan Shepard . One of
living . Particularly as its rival , Oxford , has had a
first journey into Space .
the opportunity to show is just as interested in the
these three men has a date with destiny - the
interested only in dead subjects . Now Cambridge has
people believed that there were no more worlds to
conquer .
At the beginning of this wonderful century many
The other incident occurred in the boat-train from Cherbourg
took out a piece of paper , wrote his address on it and added :
" Anybody mucking the Yanks about had better call on me
first . I won't stand for it . " Exit a puzzled American .
Nobody 's going to shove 2ole Uncle Sam around ! " He then
to Paris .
been in Britain many times before , were
The travellers from the New World who had
out of unturned stones . "
many a good trade unionist since then has , in the
we knew it all , but you Britishers never run
the theoretical Luddite hammer again .
darndest , I offer these sad complexities . IN the 1830's
hope of improving the lot of his fellow workers , taken
To the British Travel Association , doing their excellent
the Luddites took sledge-hammers to their looms and
slightly stunned . Afterwards they said : " We thought
in Los Angeles . They have developed a new
the stop-watch manufacturing methods that
system whereby completely untrained workers
can be taught their trade by means of tape
have # led to restrictive practices . Now a new
Hence the hostility to automation and
threat to those who toil and spin has been
recordings and television .
developed by a firm specialising in electronics
What happens is that the unskilled worker
set of skilled manufacturing processes in one
Not only can the raw human mind be
audio-TV training techniques , he can be switched
explanatory TV pictures , into becoming a highly
instructions on how to do the job coupled with
technically equipped very quickly to do one
trade but , by being given another of the new
is processed , by high-speed listening to recorded
skilled , obedient craftsman in no time at all .
to a different industry if he just gives in and
with ball , bats and wickets between
# two sides consisting of eleven players
for a completely new job in less time
factory to becoming a paint sprayer in
Dictionary , is " an open air game played
Martyrs ! " " CRICKET , " says the Oxford
a ceramic factory , he can be qualified
each . " Not so , dear Oxford Dictionary .
From being an assembler in an aircraft
than it takes to say " Tolpuddle
What would THEY have thought of
the pitch with their optical
with a theodolite , six surveyors , a ball ;
You are out of date . Cricket in 1961 is played
of the village stalwarts of Hambledon who
these civil engineers creeping about
are now the patron saints of the game !
bats and wickets between two sides . Shades
instruments ?
on a pitch have no terrors for a good batsman with a stout
mighty six these days as rare as frostbite in summer .
heart , a firm grip on the willow and a hefty contempt for
batting averages and all the statistical blight that makes a
The village green is the real home of cricket . A couple of bumps
EICHMANN continues # to reveal the extraordinary divisions of the
German mind . Not content with arguing that he was only an
endless massacre that led to the death of six million Jews was
" decent , feasible and workable . "
They 'll be clapping the man who plays a straight theodolite next .
efficient cog in the machine , he now claims that part of the
He feels satisfaction " from the fact that my personality had been
Like Dr. Globke , whom I interviewed the other day , Eichmann
Pontius Pilate who washed his hands before the multitude
said :
saying : " I am innocent of the blood of this just person . "
tested and weighed and not found wanting . " He feels like
" I drew a certain solace from the fact that I did what I
when he pleads that he was only a small unit on the base
led to the top .
could despite my low rank . " Eichmann is on dangerous ground
intimate knowledge of every link in the chain of command that
at the apex . In examination he betrayed an expert and
of the triangle that led to Hitler , Himmler , Hess and Goering
meticulous comprehension that could only have come from a man
selves and feel a sense of righteousness when their hands are
who used the system - and used it with power and authority .
The appalling thing about the Germans is that they can kid them-
He understood the whole apparatus with an exact and
red with blood .
believed in the moral superiority of " The New
they really believed Hitler when he screamed at
Czechoslovakia , Poland , Holland , Belgium and France
was an iniquitous injustice . When they burst into
thus : " Whether nations live in prosperity or starve
need them as slaves to # our Kultur ; otherwise
to death like cattle interests me only in so far as we
it is of no interest to me .
They really believed that the Treaty of Versailles
Order " which Himmler on October 4 , 1943 , expressed
them that they were being " encircled . " They really
invasion of our islands all the " able-bodied
General Brauchitsch signed a directive
This concept of slavery included Britain .
Continent . " The Baltic States were
ruling , be interned and dispatched to the
local situation calls for an exceptional
ordering that after the successful
seventeen and forty-five will , unless the
to have been our destination .
male population between the ages of
Poland , had the Germans begun with such a
evil word . THE Inland Revenue people have a
themselves less disliked by their attitude
to their customers - who incidentally
of Eichmann would have been as good as their
In no other conquered country , not even
thankless task . But they do not make
pay their salaries .
drastic step . There is no doubt that the compatriots
heard a good example of their officious efficiency .
hectoring , out-of-date language , but in spite of all
net while they are bullying the minnows . I have just
a bean for the next twenty-one days .
A young chap I know got his first job last week . He
their bluster , they let many a big fish through the
is paid monthly in arrears and will not get
Their demands are invariably couched in
of " Abou Ben Adhem . "
come through the sugary sentiments
upbringing and a possible reprieve might
ness . I may well have felt that I was
guilty interest in the devilment busi-
It was called " Abou Ben Adhem and the
flection , it might be that I took a
hell-bound under a strict Presbyterian
impressed with this poem but , on re-
Angel . " I don't know why I was so
of German rearmament , in opposition , to France . "
Later that year he warned that Britain knew
building bombers , and added :
the German ambassador in London was dictating
SOME 17 years ago , in the early summer of 1934 ,
a secret report to his chief von Papen , in Berlin .
Germany was breaking the agreement to stop
" Britain is uncomfortable in her role of champion
providing the cloak for Germany to build an
Hoesch's reports , along with other nazi documents ,
clear . At nazi Germany's request , Britain was
ment in the air would be jeopardised . " When
" Without Britain's tolerance German rearma-
pattern of British Government connivance became
air force bigger than that of France .
were captured and published after the war the
Yesterday West German Defence Minister ,
United States' principal Nato ally . "
the " strongest militarily in Europe and the
militarists are advancing their rearmament .
that his policy was to make his country
are another stage in the cloak operation ,
Herr Strauss told the Daily Mail last October
1961 variety , by which the West German
Defence Minister , Mr. Watkinson . Their talks
Herr Strauss , started talks with the British
the argument with Mr. Watkinson which he had in public at a
His job is to build up the military apparatus which
Europe through the Common Market . He continued this week
Nato council meeting last year over the question : do we
will back West Germany's economic domination of Western
fight a 30-day war or a 90-day war ?
agreed to give similar " facilities "
In the past year West Germany
German armed forces ( within Nato
A 90-day war , the West German
bases all over Western Europe .
" facilities " in France , Holland and
view , provides the pretext for huge
Belgium . After much bargaining
has secured agreements for
the British Government has
of course ) and for those to have
compared with four divisions of
in Nato . ( A supply apparatus which would
will be 11 German divisions in Nato
British troops .
Britain for being an obstacle for West Germany's
plans for a " unified supply apparatus "
" facilities . " ) By the end of the year there
The process has been too slow for Herr
link together the various West German
Strauss and last month he attacked
( range 950 miles ) , also provided by the Americans .
36 firing ramps , including weapons like Matador
up . These " fighters " are in fact fighter bombers
Alongside these divisions a force of over 600
Starfighters provided by the Americans is growing
nine missile battalions , with 288 missiles and
Eastern Europe . By 1963 the Germans plan to have
which could launch an atomic attack on
and stronger . Now this target which
reported to be halfway toward
warheads to these weapons . General
this target . Her position as " America's
a great disturbance last autumn
Heusinger , the man who caused
have their eyes on is control of the
Last month West Germany was
principal Nato ally " grows stronger
Herr Strauss and his fellows
American leadership . But a big role has been
by Right-Wing Labour in this country . They have
helped build up Nato and rearm Western Germany ,
in pursuit of the old familiar anti-Soviet
played not only by the British Government but
All this has been achieved through Nato under
policy which brought disaster in 1939 .
the German militarists , is , in fact , the cover for
Now the argument is being used that Nato must be maintained
his quest for atomic arms .
and Britain must stay in it to keep the Germans in
building up their power . What must Britain do ? Today ,
again , she has a key role . Let her tell men like Strauss
that he shall have no bases or " facilities , " no help in
control . Nato , far from being a means of controlling
alliances like Nato and seeks friendship
betrayal like that of the '30s . Shipbuilding
policy decisions established at the Scar-
bell's article , for , as president of a union
appalled at the character of the current
with the Soviet Union can prevent another
which fought for and still stands on the
city : * # I WAS pleased to read J. R. Camp-
borough Labour Party Conference I am
Draughtsmen , writing in his personal capa-
A policy which breaks with military
to the two major conferences of the movement and
unpalatable majority decisions as binding on the
down # unambiguous alternatives to
many others , we conducted our fight by putting
For many years my union had to present its views
movement and having a go next time . Alongside
take a licking . For us , unity meant accepting
official policy and seeking to win majorities
for them .
perspective of sharp struggle based on consistent
movement , which had then chosen a vigorous
lines of difference with the Tories . Many members
we were naturally delighted , more so because
When Scarborough carried our point of view
anti-Nato , anti-Tory , anti-bomb and anti-German
of the union would become easier in the context
understood that the bread-and-butter struggles
the alternatives had been put clearly to the
rearmament policy . Hopes rose as we saw a
of organisational dominance
Gaitskellites using the position
established during their years
between support for the war
if we have then by our practice
spending on armaments , and our
standards . Instead , we saw the
basic effort to improve living
For we have always felt , even
ignored it , the inconsistency
alliance , with resulting colossal
time . Confusion of the original issue
around frantically to overturn them next
by misrepresentation of the decisions ,
They obstructed every effort to fight for the
a demand that the movement unite
trick of moving a number of unions
and no other seems to have done the
and the call for party unity - in effect ,
the introduction of a pseudo third way
Scarborough decisions , while # scratching
with the Gaitskellites on their policy
original stand . Only where the issues were
immediate confusion hides the fact that the
decisions .
It would become easy to become cynical and
majority to # secure the Scarborough
clearly , sections of the movement reaffirmed their
posed so as to cause doubt and confusion
to despair . And yet , wherever the issues were put
Peace movement is still advancing and that
clarification of the issues can bring a
were positions lost . It is my view that this
This , and the numbers of active
were confused , clear policy details -
how and why the trick was done ,
In unions where the central issues
provides a strong , immediate basis
Powerful units have stood firm .
doubtful positions , and for a consistent
as on bases - were decisively carried .
workers who are beginning to understand
peace policy .
for a campaign against weak and
Administration's sharpened policies , the
All recent events show how correct the
Gaitskellism is bankrupt .
working class to sharp new dangers - that
present a whole new proof that to abandon
speeded-up drive to improve West
Scarborough is to expose Britain and her
Germany's armament , the new attempt
Market , and the kite-flying on Spain
Scarborough decisions were . The Kennedy
to rush Britain into the European Common
Ordinary working people will never
Gaitskell's stupid hope . The tragedy is
Government to carry through Tory policy -
rally to defend a policy founded on
a fighting policy , based on Scarborough .
have been made into Tory strength by
trade union movement following the
THE desire for unity in the Labour and
political chicanery or elect a Labour
that enormous inroads could already
same as that of the Tory Government .
established on a false basis , or by creating
At the same time that unity cannot be
convenience . Unity can never be established by
troops being trained on British soil and Polaris ,
being a law unto themselves and opposing
any formula uniting those who oppose German
further confusion within the movement . Unity
conference decisions when it suits their own
and those who are for this policy - which is the
will never be established on the basis of leaders
troops being trained on British soil . The new
not remain an independent nuclear Power , now
bases , but are in favour of German bases and
Britain in an even more dangerous position .
supports the policy of depending on American
leaders are not only in favour of American
Defence statement , while accepting that Britain can-
ment to unite the movement as the Labour
nuclear weapons and the H-bomb , placing
It is impossible for Labour's new Defence state-
different in principle to the new defence statement .
who will actually give the instructions to press
by their talk of political and collective control
The statement of Padley and Crossman is no
clear who controls the American H-bomb , and
They accept American nuclear bases , and also
of Nato . The Pentagon has made it perfectly
until some future date . They deceive the people
the use of nuclear weapons and nuclear strategy
the button for nuclear warfare .
at the same time defend Britain . This
trade unionists , when it decided by overwhelming
on unilateral disarmament , and to oppose
was shown at the Scottish Trades Union
the Holy Loch , or any other part of Britain .
votes , to reaffirm the Scarborough decisions
There is only one way to develop unity and
Congress , representing 800,000 organised
Polaris and military bases being installed on
that the movement will go on record against
and military training .
present Tory Government , which has become a
Such a policy would unite the whole movement
the Polaris base and facilities for German bases
home and foreign policy . It is quite evident
and lay the basis for the defeat of the
real menace to the British people both in
ballyhoo about Commonwealth Training
end the manufacture and use of
all nuclear strategy and weapons of mass
than a handful of new apprenticeships
Week subsides it is doubtful whether more
This should strengthen the campaign to
destruction , and lay the basis for real
nuclear weapons in Britain . Britain then
could play a leading and independent
role for an international agreement to ban
peace and progress . WHEN all the
Wolverhampton for Britain's technical training to
This week of window dressing will not prevent
and open days at techs , more than descents into
jobs . It needs more than 10,000 church parades
Brighton's sewers or balloon ascents over
in six weeks time from ending up in blind alley
most of the hopeful 15-year-olds leaving school
catch up with the space age .
centage is expected to swell to 80
work in 1960 420000 ( 73 per cent )
next year . The Duke , possibly
The heli-hopping Duke of Edinburgh ,
young people aged 15-17 starting
speaking from experience , stated :
scientific revolution . Out of the 550,000
opening a few technical college extensions ,
will not keep us abreast of the
went into unskilled work . The per-
offered six craft apprenticeships and received 450
boys who passed the Admiralty exams for Rosyth
dockyard last year .
are denied it . One area electricity board in 1958
applications , of whom 100 were considered suitable by
But the Duke is wrong when he implies that young people
prefer unskilled jobs . Countless numbers who want training
the board . There were only 17 vacancies for the 58
survey of a life work . P. J. K. HANS WERNER
The production by Bill Duncalf
HENZE'S " Elegy for Young Lovers " is the first
compressed a long and sometimes rambling
a representative modern work and the composer
idioms , with a strong sense of words and situation .
story into a concentrated comprehensive
admitted to the Glyndebourne canon . By no
means a masterpiece , it is in many respects
unambiguously " contemporary " work to be
is a highly skilled manipulator of contemporary
intervals , and the result is often less delineation
is largely a satire on the petty court
egocentric character leads him to sacrifice
or at least the most successfully executed trait
of the libretto , which contains an odd blend of highly
obtains his musical characterisation by means
everything to his need of inspiration . Henze
of character than caricature . This is also the chief ,
of individual instrumental timbres and " personal "
The libretto , by W. H. Auden and Chester Kallman ,
surrounding an ageing poet , whose deeply
mischief perpetrated by almost every person
the bones Doris Langley Moore has brought
who had been close to him . In turning over
behaviour and a vision of mischief-
classes in the early 19th century which
him , and was even outmatched by the
leaves one a little breathless .
to light a great deal of discreditable
The evil that Byron did certainly lived after
making propensities of the leisured
ber of German film directors who have
Film Festival was suddenly jolted back to
ennui , the eleventh Berlin International
AFTER ten days of intermittent , near fatal
angelo Antonioni's " La Notte . " The num-
life by two extraordinary films , Bernhard
made first rate works in the last 25 years
Wicki's " Das Wunder des Malachias " ( " The
can be counted on the fingers of one
Miracle of Father Malachias " ) and Michael-
film ro*?5le in Ka"utner's " Die letzt
sation of the German cinema . Wicki is
Bru"cke , " and he also appears in the
It would now seem that Wicki's name must
as an actor , had his first important
may well be a landmark in the revitali-
be added to this list , for his new film
new Antonioni film .
not only a director . He began his career
is now on view in a Berlin gallery is most im-
technical means of abstraction .
In 1950 he began to take photographs not
pressive . As Friedrich Du"rrenmatt , the Swiss
lost and the forgotten , but they are also the
only in Germany but also in Africa and
and greys are not only the colours of the
playwright and author , wrote : " Wicki's blacks
America . An exhibition of these works which
film , " Die Bru"cke , " was equally terrifying ,
colouring must be eliminated . He does not
want the accuracy of a police photograph ,
but rather he wants to show the eternal in
Every unnecessary detail , all superfluous local
of reality into an icy supernatural vacuum
grapher as to Wicki the director . His earlier
but here the director moves out of the world
chias " is due as much to Wicki the photo-
every instant . " The chilling horror of " Mala-
moved . One night his prayer is answered
and the offending establishment is suddenly
Following Bruce Marshall's original novel with
considerable fidelity , the film tells the story
But Father Malachias's troubles have only
begun . Instead of having the desired effect ,
table night club near his church be re-
of a little monk who prays that a disrepu-
the miracle becomes exploited by a group
transplanted to an island in the North Sea .
given a gala society reopening on the
crowning indignity the night club is
the missing building . The Church rebukes the
island . Father Malachias goes to the island ,
poor monk for his miracle , and as a
Soon a carnival springs up on the sight of
night club is replaced in its original
setting .
prays , and in a second miracle the
the glaring beacon of a lighthouse .
tells his story best in the faces of his crowds ,
the wildly flapping white sails slashed by
with brutal honesty , building up to a
Here , the guests arrive in ghost-like yachts ,
A summary of the story can give almost
tremendous climax in the island orgy .
recording every wrinkle and drop of sweat
indication of the scope of Wicki's artistry . He
last days of a sick society .
and thoroughly frightening . Wicki has
marvellous joke ; no one has learned anything . Wicki
walking in the streets , smug , content , satisfied ,
recording his personal apocalypse of the
succeeded in his second film in
complete silence he shows the faces of people
When the final miracle does occur , it is accepted as a
suddenly returns to the city for a final epilogue . In
" Dolce Vita , " for it is far more intimate and deeply
It is most unfair to call " Malachias " a cut-rate
Third Reich with the sinking of the great ocean liner ,
in " Titanic " by paralleling the last days of the
felt . In 1944 Herbert Selpin tried a similar feat
and paid for his audacity with his life .
to " Vogue , " " Cahiers du Cinema , " and the
worst aspects of the American cinema . From
out into a series of repetitious sight-gags
the film with extreme coolness , much preferring
Aznavour ) .
est une Femme , " a ninety-one minute hymn
uninitiated ( including four plugs for Charles
and personal jokes incomprehensible to the
Strangely enough , the Berlin audience received
a brilliantly funny start , the work fizzles
Jean-Luc Godard's disappointing " Une Femme
" Unheimliche Geschichten " ( 1920 ) , five ghost stories
This director is at last being re-evaluated and
with a light touch , and there was much to admire
given his proper place in the history of the
Germany to start the First World War .
tries to show that it took more than just
but extremely important " 1914 " ( 1931 ) , which
in " Dreyfus " ( 1930 ) and the virtually unknown
German film . Most charming was his tongue-in-cheek
and the audience at the awards was particularly
film . Gifted with an interesting face , although little
generous in giving everyone something , and silver
worth watching in the months to come .
bears are awarded in every direction . Both the
Sentence Database C02-059
as best actress for her work in the Godard
acting ability , she would seem to be well
enthusiastic when one Miss Anna Kerima was selected
Prizes being what they are , Berlin is unusually
Antonioni and Wicki films took high honours ,
living , that once seemed so new and so
situation and movement it matters a lot ) is
about it , of enormous cinematic enjoyment , and
It has a great look of speed and technical fun
above all of cinematic sense . Much of it has
who spends a few days with an American girl
sense of plot , matters much ; but in the sense of
that air of improvisation , as of off-the-cuff
attractive . The story ( not that the story , in the
that of a man on the run ( Jean-Paul Belmondo ) ,
lated into Seven Days ... Seven Nights ...
in Moderato Cantabile ( curiously trans-
well trounced by the critics wherever it
in France and shown last autumn at
has appeared . Leisurely , even slow ,
A certificate ) , Peter Brook's film made
the London Film Festival . In spite of
from Jeanne Moreau , this has been fairly
Belmondo reappears at the Paris Pullman
magnificent performances from him and
Malden not knowing how to take it ,
all rolling eyeballs like a villain
Donahue ; and Claudette Colbert , still
With a large blond youth of quite
charming amid the nonsense , and Karl
dazzling dumbness called Troy
from East Lynne .
this unity of conception and control are
play A Taste of Honey opens at the Leicester
part-author with Miss Delaney of the script ,
an directed by Mr. Tony Richardson , who is also
and the great advantages to be derived from
The film version of Miss Shelagh Delaney's
Square Theatre tomorrow . It has been produced
everywhere apparent .
to be derived from this unity of conception and control
Taste of Honey opens at the Leicester Square Theatre
tomorrow . It has been produced and directed by
Mr. Tony Richardson , who is also part-author with
are everywhere apparent .
Miss Delaney of the script , and the great advantages
The film version of Miss Shelagh Delaney's play A
apparent .
The film version of Miss Shelagh Delaney's play
A Taste of Honey opens at the Leicester Square
directed by Mr. Tony Richardson , who is also part-
Theatre tomorrow . It has been produced and
unity of conception and control are everywhere
the great advantages to be derived from this
author with Miss Delaney of the script , and
play A Taste of Honey opens at the Leicester
be derived from this unity of conception and
Square Theatre tomorrow . It has been pro-
duced and directed by Mr. Tony Richardson ,
of the script , and the great advantages to
who is also part-author with Miss Delaney
control are everywhere apparent .
The film version of Miss Shelagh Delaney's
control are everywhere apparent .
also part-author with Miss Delaney of the
script , and the great advantages to be
The film version of Miss Shelagh Delaney's
derived from this unity of conception and
and directed by Mr. Tony Richardson , who is
Square Theatre tomorrow . It has been produced
play A Taste of Honey opens at the Leicester
Richardson , who is also part-author with
of conception and control are everywhere
play A Taste of Honey opens at the
been produced and directed by Mr. Tony
Miss Delaney of the script , and the great
The film version of Miss Shelagh Delaney's
Leicester Square Theatre tomorrow . It has
advantages to be derived from this unity
apparent .
conceived throughout in terms of the cinema ,
the atmosphere of a city .
of the story , and the marriage of the central
and again and again it is the visual qualities
This is not a filmed play . It has been
also has its premiere tomorrow , the director ,
the film so vividly to life . In Fanny , which
Mr. Joshua Logan , attempted but failed to create
characters to their background , which bring
throughout in terms of the cinema , and again and
the director , Mr. Joshua Logan , attempted but failed
In Fanny , which also has its premiere tomorrow ,
This is not a filmed play . It has been conceived
background , which bring the film so vividly to life .
to create the atmosphere of a city .
again it is the visual qualities of the story , and
the marriage of the central characters to their
Joshua Logan , attempted but failed to
create the atmosphere of a city .
film so vividly to life . In Fanny , which also
ceived throughout in terms of the cinema , and
This is not a filmed play . It has been con-
characters to their background , which bring the
again and again it is the visual qualities of
has its premiere tomorrow , the director , Mr.
the story , and the marriage of the central
story , and the marriage of the central charac-
This is not a filmed play . It has been conceived
throughout in terms of the cinema , and again
film so vividly to life . In Fanny , which
create the atmosphere of a city .
also has its premiere tomorrow , the director ,
ters to their background , which bring the
Mr. Joshua Logan , attempted but failed to
and again it is the visual qualities of the
the film so vividly to life . In Fanny , which
and again and again it is the visual qualities
also has its premiere tomorrow , the director ,
ceived throughout in terms of the cinema ,
create the atmosphere of a city .
of the story , and the marriage of the central
characters to their background , which bring
This is not a filmed play . It has been con-
Mr. Joshua Logan , attempted but failed to
the director , Mr. Joshua Logan , attempted
a city .
Fanny , which also has its premiere tomorrow ,
of the story , and the marriage of the
which bring the film so vividly to life . In
but failed to create the atmosphere of
This is not a filmed play . It has been concei-
ved throughout in terms of the cinema ,
and again and again it is the visual qualities
central characters to their background ,
and wet pavements , the school play-grounds ,
a town in the industrial North of England
the public monuments and the rubbish
in the churchyard , " sacred to the memory of " -
are seen as an integral part of the story .
In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has taken
strewn canals - even the worn head-stones
and has made it live . The shabby streets
integral part of the story .
" sacred to the memory of " - are seen as an
wet pavements , the school play-grounds , the
public monuments and the rubbish strewn canals -
In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has
even the worn head-stones in the churchyard ,
taken a town in the industrial North of England
and has made it live . The shabby streets and
the rubbish strewn canals - even the worn
the story .
In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has taken a
head-stones in the churchyard , " sacred to the
the school play-grounds , the public monuments and
town in the industrial North of England and
memory of " - are seen as an integral part of
has made it live . The shabby streets and wet pavements ,
churchyard , " sacred to the memory of "
canals - even the worn head-stones in the
a town in the industrial North of England
- are seen as an integral part of the
and has made it live . The shabby streets
In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has taken
story .
and wet pavements , the school play-grounds ,
the public monuments and the rubbish strewn
In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has
the rubbish strewn canals - even the
play-grounds , the public monuments and
England and has made it live . The shabby
worn head-stones in the churchyard , " sacred
streets and wet pavements , the school
taken a town in the industrial North of
to the memory of " - are seen as an
integral part of the story .
grounds , the public monuments and the
England and has made it live . The shabby
streets and wet pavements , the school play-
In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has
rubbish strewn canals - even the worn
the memory of " - are seen as an integral
taken a town in the industrial North of
head-stones in the churchyard , " sacred to
part of the story .
play-grounds , the public monuments and
head-stones in the churchyard , " sacred to
gral part of the story .
streets and wet pavements , the school
the rubbish strewn canals - even the worn
the memory of " - are seen as an inte-
taken a town in the industrial North of
In A Taste of Honey Mr. Richardson has
England and has made it live . The shabby
girl lives in a single dingy room with
surroundings she learns sex is something
first time herself it is incoherently , clumsily ,
but half inquisitively . As is the case in Fanny
intense realism in the situation . A young
to bear his child and sails away .
her slatternly , promiscuous mother . In such
her first lover is a sailor who leaves her
But there is heart in the telling , and an
sordid , and when she experiences it for the
first lover is a sailor who leaves her to bear
his child and sails away .
But there is heart in the telling , and an intense
a single dingy room with her slatternly ,
realism in the situation . A young girl lives in
half inquisitively . As is the case in Fanny her
learns sex is something sordid , and when she
promiscuous mother . In such surroundings she
is incoherently , clumsily , but half shyly and
experiences it for the first time herself it
shyly and half inquisitively . As is the case in
herself it is incoherently , clumsily , but half
slatternly , promiscuous mother . In such
But there is heart in the telling , and an
girl lives in a single dingy room with her
Fanny her first lover is a sailor who leaves
intense realism in the situation . A young
and when she experiences it for the first time
her to bear his child and sails away .
surroundings she learns sex is something sordid ,
is the case in Fanny her first lover is a sailor
who leaves her to bear his child and sails
but half shyly and half inquisitively . As
away .
her slatternly , promiscuous mother . In such
But there is heart in the telling , and an
sordid , and when she experiences it for
surroundings she learns sex is something
the first time herself it is incoherently , clumsily ,
girl lives in a single dingy room with
intense realism in the situation . A young
But there is heart in the telling , and an
first lover is a sailor who leaves her to
girl lives in a single dingy room with her
sordid , and when she experiences it for the
slatternly , promiscuous mother . In such
bear his child and sails away .
clumsily , but half shyly and half in-
quisitively . As is the case in Fanny her
first time herself it is incoherently ,
intense realism in the situation . A young
surroundings she learns sex is something
you are looking for someone to love " .
hour of need . He shares her room and gives
In Fanny the pregnant girl is befriended by
as much as to the expectant mother , who acts
her his forlorn gift of companionship and sym-
strong maternal instinct to the unborn child
pathy - " you need someone to love you while
estranged from women but yet moved by a
an old man . Here it is a young homosexual ,
as a protector and comforter to her in her
man . Here it is a young homosexual , estranged from
of need . He shares her room and gives her his forlorn
someone to love " .
In Fanny the pregnant girl is befriended by an old
who acts as a protector and comforter to her in her hour
women but yet moved by a strong maternal instinct to
gift of companionship and sympathy - " you need
the unborn child as much as to the expectant mother ,
someone to love you while you are looking for
from women but yet moved by a strong maternal
shares her room and gives her his forlorn gift
old man . Here it is a young homosexual , estranged
In Fanny the pregnant girl is befriended by an
someone to love " .
expectant mother , who acts as a protector and
instinct to the unborn child as much as to the
to love you while you are looking for
of companionship and sympathy - " you need someone
comforter to her in her hour of need . He
her his forlorn gift of companionship and
strong maternal instinct to the unborn child
her hour of need . He shares her room and gives
In Fanny the pregnant girl is befriended by
you are looking for someone to love " .
sympathy - " you need someone to love you while
estranged from women but yet moved by a
as much as to the expectant mother , who
acts as a protector and comforter to her in
an old man . Here it is a young homosexual ,
In Fanny the pregnant girl is befriended
by an old man . Here it is a young homo-
who acts as a protector and comforter to
sexual , estranged from women but yet moved
by a strong maternal instinct to the unborn
to love you while you are looking for
child as much as to the expectant mother ,
and gives her his forlorn gift of com-
someone to love " .
panionship and sympathy - " you need someone
her in her hour of need . He shares her room
by an old man . Here it is a young homo-
" you need someone to love you while you
forlorn gift of companionship and sympathy -
and comforter to her in her hour of need .
sexual , estranged from women but yet
moved by a strong maternal instinct to
expectant mother , who acts as a protector
the unborn child as much as to the
He shares her room and gives her his
In Fanny the pregnant girl is befriended
a flawed but beautiful enigma , seen but not
technical error in allowing Irene to speak
that of the sergeant , gives a performance of
in our minds about her if she remained
for herself ; we would be altogether clearer
rare intelligence and restrained power .
Arguably , the dramatist has committed a
few brief scenes effective , and Mr. Dinsdale
Landen , in the longest and most exacting role ,
heard . However , Miss Pinkie Johnstone makes her
Miss Pinkie Johnstone makes her few brief scenes
herself ; we would be altogether clearer in our
and restrained power .
the longest and most exacting role , that of the
sergeant , gives a performance of rare intelligence
technical error in allowing Irene to speak for
effective , and Mr. Dinsdale Landen , in
beautiful enigma , seen but not heard . However ,
minds about her if she remained a flawed but
Arguably , the dramatist has committed a
enigma , seen but not heard . However , Miss Pinkie
exacting role , that of the sergeant , gives a performance
error in allowing Irene to speak for herself ;
we would be altogether clearer in our minds
Arguably , the dramatist has committed a technical
Johnstone makes her few brief scenes effective , and
of rare intelligence and restrained power .
about her if she remained a flawed but beautiful
Mr. Dinsdale Landen , in the longest and most
Arguably , the dramatist has committed a
a flawed but beautiful enigma , seen but
restrained power .
technical error in allowing Irene to speak
exacting role , that of the sergeant , gives
not heard . However , Miss Pinkie Johnstone
Dinsdale Landen , in the longest and most
a performance of rare intelligence and
in our minds about her if she remained
for herself ; we would be altogether clearer
makes her few brief scenes effective , and Mr.
exacting role , that of the sergeant , gives a perfor-
in our minds about her if she remained
for herself ; we would be altogether clearer
makes her few brief scenes effective , and
Mr. Dinsdale Landen , in the longest and most
a flawed but beautiful enigma , seen but
power .
mance of rare intelligence and restrained
not heard . However , Miss Pinkie Johnstone
Arguably , the dramatist has committed a
technical error in allowing Irene to speak
Arguably , the dramatist has committed a
flawed but beautiful enigma , seen but not
makes her few brief scenes effective , and
Mr. Dinsdale Landen , in the longest and most
exacting role , that of the sergeant , gives a
for herself ; we would be altogether clearer
in our minds about her if she remained a
performance of rare intelligence and restrained
heard . However , Miss Pinkie Johnstone
technical error in allowing Irene to speak
power of unbridled ambition .
on the not unfamiliar theme of the destructive
Mr. Bryan Stonehouse's production is quietly
effective , giving full value to the formal elements
them . Last night's play in the " Play of the
Week " series on independent television , Then
of Betti's writing without over-emphasizing
We Fall , by Mr. Paul Ferris , was a morality
them . Last night's play in the " Play of the
of Betti's writing without over-emphasizing
Week " series on independent television , Then
Mr. Bryan Stonehouse's production is quietly
effective , giving full value to the formal elements
on the not unfamiliar theme of the destructive
We Fall , by Mr. Paul Ferris , was a morality
power of unbridled ambition .
Mr. Bryan Stonehouse's production is quietly effective ,
giving full value to the formal elements of Betti's
was a morality on the not unfamiliar theme of
the destructive power of unbridled ambition .
writing without over-emphasizing them . Last night's
dent television , Then We Fall , by Mr. Paul Ferris ,
play in the " Play of the Week " series on indepen-
" Play of the Week " series on independent
ris , was a morality on the not unfamiliar
Mr. Bryan Stonehouse's production is quietly
ambition .
emphasizing them . Last night's play in the
television , Then We Fall , by Mr. Paul Fer-
elements of Betti's writing without over-
effective , giving full value to the formal
theme of the destructive power of unbridled
them . Last night's play in the " Play of the
Week " series on independent television , Then We
Mr. Bryan Stonehouse's production is quietly
the not unfamiliar theme of the destructive
effective , giving full value to the formal elements
Fall , by Mr. Paul Ferris , was a morality on
power of unbridled ambition .
of Betti's writing without over-emphasizing
formal elements of Betti's writing without
Mr. Bryan Stonehouse's production is
quietly effective , giving full value to the
of unbridled ambition .
unfamiliar theme of the destructive power
independent television , Then We Fall , by
Mr. Paul Ferris , was a morality on the not
in the " Play of the Week " series on
over-emphasizing them . Last night's play
treatments of its subject by attempting to
It went , perhaps , some distance beyond most
generate a melodramatic inevitability which
way in which Mr. Ferris manipulated his
characters .
left its central character and the world
around him in complete , unredeemable desolation .
succeeded if we had a little more faith in the
We could , perhaps , say whether or not the attempt
way in which Mr. Ferris manipulated
around him in complete , unredeemable desolation .
It went , perhaps , some distance beyond most
his characters .
We could , perhaps , say whether or not the attempt
generate a melodramatic inevitability which
treatments of its subject by attempting to
succeeded if we had a little more faith in the
left its central character and the world
Ferris manipulated his characters .
It went , perhaps , some distance beyond most treatments
dramatic inevitability which left its central character
mable desolation . We could , perhaps , say whether
little more faith in the way in which Mr.
and the world around him in complete , unredee-
of its subject by attempting to generate a melo-
or not the attempt succeeded if we had a
unredeemable desolation . We could , perhaps ,
of we had a little more faith in the
inevitability which left its central character
most treatments of its subject by
his characters .
way in which Mr. Ferris manipulated
attempting to generate a melodramatic
say whether or not the attempt succeeded
It went , perhaps , some distance beyond
and the world around him in complete ,
treatments of its subject by attempting to
solation . We could , perhaps , say whether or not
It went , perhaps , some distance beyond most
pulated his characters .
faith in the way in which Mr. Ferris mani-
the attempt succeeded if we had a little more
around him in complete , unredeemable de-
generate a melodramatic inevitability
which left its central character and the world
world around him in complete , unredeemable
which left its central character and the
to generate a melodramatic inevitability
little more faith in the way in which Mr.
or not the attempt succeeded if we had a
desolation . We could , perhaps , say whether
Ferris manipulated his characters .
most treatments of its subject by attempting
It went , perhaps , some distance beyond
Mr. William Lucas ( Morris ) is always insensi-
suitably gaudy colour .
the editor , always comically abashed by the
always palely appealing , Mr. James Maxwell ,
but played with proper efficiency and , in
tively pushing , Miss Sheila Allen his wife ,
not asked to modulate from their set moods
the case of Mr. Richards , with lavish and
law , always comically grotesque ; they were
events , and Mr. Aubrey Richards , the father-in-
colour .
the editor , always comically abashed by the
Mr. William Lucas ( Morris ) is always
events , and Mr. Aubrey Richards , the father-in-law ,
to modulate from their set moods but played
always comically grotesque ; they were not asked
wife , always palely appealing , Mr. James Maxwell ,
Richards , with lavish and suitably gaudy
insensitively pushing , Miss Sheila Allen his
with proper efficiency and , in the case of Mr.
Mr. William Lucas ( Morris ) is always insensitively
Richards , the father-in-law , always comically
appealing , Mr. James Maxwell , the editor , always
ciency and , in the case of Mr. Richards , with
their set moods but played with proper effi-
pushing , Miss Sheila Allen his wife , always palely
grotesque ; they were not asked to modulate from
comically abashed by the events , and Mr. Aubrey
lavish and suitably gaudy colour .
his wife , always palely appealing , Mr.
James Maxwell , the editor , always comi-
and suitably gaudy colour .
asked to modulate from their set moods
Aubrey Richards , the father-in-law , always
Mr. William Lucas ( Morris ) is always
cally abashed by the events , and Mr.
but played with proper efficiency and ,
in the case of Mr. Richards , with lavish
comically grotesque ; they were not
insensitively pushing , Miss Sheila Allen
the events , and Mr. Aubrey Richards , the
efficiency and , in the case of Mr. Richards ,
with lavish and suitably gaudy colour .
the editor , always comically abashed by
always palely appealing , Mr. James Maxwell ,
sitively pushing , Miss Sheila Allen his wife ,
they were not asked to modulate from
father-in-law , always comically grotesque ;
Mr. William Lucas ( Morris ) is always insen-
their set moods but played with proper
tively pushing , Miss Sheila Allen his wife ,
their set moods but played with proper
father-in-law , always comically grotesque ;
they were not asked to modulate from
Mr. William Lucas ( Morris ) is always insensi-
with lavish and suitably gaudy colour .
the events , and Mr. Aubrey Richards , the
efficiency and , in the case of Mr. Richards ,
always palely appealing , Mr. James Maxwell ,
the editor , always comically abashed by
one feels , were driven to effective action by
tradition .
act oddly like the queer foreigners of
with which he had endowed them . One
that , because of their odd accents , they
Only Mr. Lucas's actions , therefore , arose
explicably from appreciable motives . The rest ,
hopes that he is not asking us to believe
the author in spite of the ineffectuality
Only Mr. Lucas's actions , therefore , arose
like the queer foreigners of tradition .
that he is not asking us to believe that ,
by the author in spite of the ineffectuality
with which he had endowed them . One hopes
because of their odd accents , they act oddly
rest , one feels , were driven to effective action
explicably from appreciable motives . The
Only Mr. Lucas's actions , therefore , arose explicably
accents , they act oddly like the queer foreigners
from appreciable motives . The rest , one feels , were
endowed them . One hopes that he is not
of tradition .
asking us to believe that , because of their odd
driven to effective action by the author in spite
of the ineffectuality with which he had
them . One hopes that he is not asking
rest , one feels , were driven to effective
ineffectuality with which he had endowed
foreigners of tradition .
accents , they act oddly like the queer
action by the author in spite of the
explicably from appreciable motives . The
us to believe that , because of their odd
Only Mr. Lucas's actions , therefore , arose
is not asking us to believe that , because of
Only Mr. Lucas's actions , therefore , arose
queer foreigners of tradition .
the author in spite of the ineffectuality with
explicably from appreciable motives . The
their odd accents , they act oddly like the
which he had endowed them . One hopes that he
rest , one feels , were driven to effective action by
them . One hopes that he is not asking us
action by the author in spite of the
Only Mr. Lucas's actions , therefore , arose
accents , they act oddly like the queer
rest , one feels , were driven to effective
foreigners of tradition .
explicably from appreciable motives . The
to believe that , because of their odd
ineffectuality with which he had endowed
Vaughan will burst on to the London Palladium stage
and leave the rest to him . "
in a new show . To paraphrase his well-known ditty :
" He 'll have the limelight , they 'll give him the girls -
NEXT month that friendly , effervescent performer Frankie
career that Anna Neagle and Herbert Wilcox were not
carrot was dangled before his nose .
old , star-studded West End than he will ever feel in
I have a hunch that he will feel more at home in the
Hollywood . His American bosses , 20th-Century Fox , have
recently given Frankie the full , razzamataz , red-carpet
treatment . But they haven't done a thing for his film
doing better here , before the platinum-plated Hollywood
business . He plays an aspiring actor - a
In his first Hollywood picture , " Let 's Make Love , " he
a cardboard role , didn't stand a chance . Now comes
selfish , arrogant , brash , ambitious , unscrupulous heel -
the Hollywood ratrace .
" The Right Approach " ( Rialto , " A " ) , and it 's a glum
was swamped by the know-how of Marilyn Monroe
who would tread on anybody's neck to get a break in
and Yves Montand . Against this couple Frankie , in
best moments are when he swings breezily into the
true as a smooth-tongued , ill-mannered Yank . His
cheats a waitress ( Juliet Prowse ) and cynically uses
title song .
a magazine editress ( Martha Hyer ) to get ahead .
He double-crosses the five pals with whom he lives ,
Frankie Vaughan is too nice a chap to ring quite
Hollywood arena .
RONALD Lewis has just left for his first taste of the
think hard and long before his next jump into the
Hollywood treatment , thanks to a sound performance in
But 6,000 miles seems a heck of a way to go
for a new hit song . He might be well advised to
" Taste of Fear " ( Warner Theatre , " X " ) .
VERDICT : Vaughan should have by-passed this approach .
variation on that sinister yarn in which half the cast
try to persuade the heroine that she is out of her mind .
damsel in distress .
He has earned his break . The film is a well-made
built up neatly . Susan Strasberg is the crippled
Despite flagrant cheating the eerie atmosphere is
comedy . He does his rescue act in " Double Bunk "
herrings in this " Find-the-body " thriller . VERDICT :
NOT for the first time the homely mug of Sidney
Don't believe all you see and hear !
also effectively around . They provide some chilly red
Stepmother Ann Todd and doctor Christopher Lee are
James has pumped life into a slim , strained
( Leicester-square Theatre , " A " ) .
a near-disastrous leak . Familiar members of Britain's
the river . The film starts off brightly enough but ,
Navigator Sid is a tower of strength when
loose their ancient houseboat on a honeymoon trip down
equally familiar hoops to mild laughter .
newly-weds Ian Carmichael and Janette Scott let
repertory team of comedy character-actors jump through
half-way through , the plot ( as well as the boat ) springs
scheming jewel thief in a play by Jacques
Gillies , " The Takers . " A polished production
" Drama '61 " last night as a smooth ,
by Mr. Houston's accomplished
DONALD HOUSTON had a big success on A T V's
by Quentin Lawrence , here , held together
gang of crooks .
performance as the master mind behind a
VERDICT : The " bunk " needed doubling .
Holloway's act too long and not particularly
so soon after their previous appearance .
Earlier , on the Palladium show I found Stanley
worth of jewellery struck me as ingenious . The play
had style , moved at a quick pace and everyone did
entertaining . It was also a mistake to
well . But it was Mr. Houston's evening .
re-book Gene Detroy and his performing chimpanzees
This plot to rob a French millionaire of 300,000
form . Why only two numbers , though ? It
a rabbit warren in a field of corn .
Whitehall farce last night , looked like
or so ago . But the Mudlarks , with Jeff Mudd
Their offering last night differed little
from their earlier act on this show a week
was not enough . " A FAIR COP , " the B B C
and brother Fred , were in bright , zestful
out of the Army and back with sister Mary
of his trousers . The action moved at tremendous
the cast . I especially liked the tea-cup
speed , backed by some wonderful timing by
lot - this time Brian Rix lost his skirt instead
The jokes were a reshuffle of the same old
scene where six of the cast changed
I can't recall a production where so many
comics bolted in and out of holes so often .
cups with the dexterity of Chinese jugglers .
humour needed a thorough shaking up the Whitehall
through the gormless standing corn around them . Perhaps
it was accidental - I hope not . If ever a bag of
alone used a sharp edge to their humour and cut
farce is it when it comes to television .
Carole Shelley as the newly-wed and Larry Noble
as Smiler Perkins were the most laughable . They
record , anyway .
HOW do you get on records ? Well , you 've got
All the good singers sing in tune . Twang a guitar
don't like things as they should be - not on
an OLD 2pianna instead of a new one . You got to
right way - so the best-seller charts say . Play
slightly off key . Everybody 's fed up with the
get it into your head , son ... people
to have something different . Sing slightly flat .
enough tacks and he got only the middle hammers done .
disc solo pianist were greatly enhanced when he dug out
A PACKET OF DRAWING-PINS . " Why not , " thought ex-soldier
Mr. Lisbon , who is twenty-three , and lives in Dagenham , Essex ,
the piano strings ? " He did , on his piano at home . There weren't
" press a thumb-tack into the nose of the hammers that strike
Thus , musician David Lisbon's chances of being a starred
miles to London for his first session .
Then he tried it out for sound . Um-chink ...
tape went to the Philips company . Within two
um-chink ... it went . Slightly flat and jangly in
hauled his thumb-tacked joanna the thirteen
days Mr. Lisbon had a record contract . And they
part . DELIGHTFUL ! He put the sound on tape . The
different ... . " More news from the ivory-thumping dept. ...
Mr. Lisbon has it taped . And tacked . And he says : " Just as well
Now along comes his solo disc , featuring two of his own
I had only one box of tacks - it might have been so
Poppets " ( Columbia ) .
comes in with another of his own works : " Parade of the
Russ Conway , who has tinkled his way to fame on an old 2pianna ,
compositions , " Deerstalker " and " Almost Grown Up . " VERDICT :
" On the Rebound " ( RCA ) .
But not one of his nimble-fingered best . GERMANY'S Russ
at a piece called " Piccadilly " ( Polydor ) . I find it cute .
Now or Never , " looks like having a success on his own with
American pianist Floyd Cramer , who played for Elvis on " It 's
Conway is a pianist who calls himself CRAZY OTTO . But
nothing crazy about his pianistics . He pounds merrily away
And such is Hal's faith that he brings him to
NEW boy on the vocal front is
Europe . Now Rolly gets his big break - a
record , the modern Aladdin's lamp of
show business .
Monty saw him in Bombay , became his manager .
Rolly Daniels , who comes 5,000 miles
from India to seek disc fame . Comedian Hal
tuneful melody sung impeccably by Robert Earl ( Philips ) . PRODUCER
directed " Six-Five Special , " Turner is aiming to go into free-lance
Charles obliged with " April Serenade . " This week it appears , a
Russell Turner , 33 , provides his last programme for the B B C tonight
" Let 's have another song with a month in it , " said Tolch . Mr.
T V , film and stage production work .
with Robert Harbin's " Mystery and Magic " ( 7.30 ) . After six years
with the Corporation , during which he started " Juke Box Jury " and
Harry Carroll from Leicester ( B B C , 8.25 ) . A
Hughes in his " Make Mine Music " ( B B C , 9.30 p.m. ) .
" I feel I 've done all I can at the B B C , " he
SONGS-OF-BRITAIN medley is sung by David
show tonight . Boxing fans can see an eight-round
feather-weight contest between Chris Elliot and
told me . " We mutually agreed to part . "
Escapologist Dill-Russell is a guest in Harbin's
are tranquilly sunny and still , for the town
a house in Anglesey-road is a congregation who
is at Mass . Most of it . In the front room of
and a brandy bottle .
never actually got to church , but who are
gathered with devotion around Brendan Behan
IT is mid-morning on a Dublin Sunday . The streets
hard-core Friends of Brendan . They listen
roller-coaster , with occasional stops for an old
brandy owner's solo swish on his anecdotal
amber inches in the bottle . Present are some
the empties ; through the door hearts are
full , hopes are high . There are still a few
Where the 2bhoys are . In the hallway are
I.R.A. air or a Connemara tear-jerker .
with many an obliging guffaw to the
place himself in the literary hierarchy .
above Nancy Mitford artistically , a
" But , " he continues , " the greatest is
" I consider myself , " he says , " a cut
Shelagh Delaney . Just because A Taste
At last Brendan - to the journalist's
above Evelyn Waugh socially , a cut
the writing scene . He proceeds to
relief - turns his attention to
cut above Frank Haxell conversationally .
unless I 'm exceedingly 2skint . " But I 'll
Royce a type of transport . She 's the
than educate . And I don't write at all
say this . I 'd like to live in America
and do some writing there .
That 's as bloody silly as calling a Rolls-
flower in a cultural desert . " Now , me - I 'm
a journalist , I write to entertain rather
the advantage that no one knows what
I was there , in even faster orbit , when that
Seventh Avenue , The Pigsty , always open .
you 're writing about anyway . " Not that I did
not with that great little Irish bar on
much when I was over this past two times ,
third astronaut went up - what 's his name ?
It 's a very free place to write in , and there 's
I 'm the only man on earth who doesn't know
the two biggest bores since Cardinal Newman .
on into reminiscences of his trips . There is
what his name is . Don't tell me . I want to
preserve that distinction . " I already know about
Shepard and that Salvation Army chap Gagarin -
much to recall .
That 's enough of all that hooey . " HE plunges
Canadians put up a mouse . "
will put a postage stamp into orbit before you
York's St. Patrick's Day parade as a " disorderly
Among other incidents he was banned from New
" Ireland will put a shillelagh into orbit , Israel
will put a matzo ball into orbit , and Lichtenstein
Canadian , during a chat about space-flight :
person . " He was in a fight after telling a
And he suffered an alcoholic
seizure and was gravely ill in
heard of often in the newspapers -
condition . His return to Dublin was
three times up before the beaks for
alcoholic . " Since then he has been
heralded by the announcement that
hospital with a diabetic and heart
he was " off the gargle - a retired
drunk and disorderly conduct .
Stratford , last spring ? It was never finished .
and The Hostage was put on . What has happened to
five years since his first play , The Quare Fellow , was
LESS has been heard of Brendan's work . It is now
the play , Richard's Cork Leg , begun 18 months ago
produced , three years since Borstal Boy was published
and due for presentation at the Theatre Royal ,
I have before me now a 12,000-word manuscript of
begins : " There was a party to celebrate Deirdre's
return from her abortion in Bristol . "
by his publishers in March of last year ? Still a skeleton . Yet
What happened to the new book partially tape-recorded
a book planned to be called Confessions of an Irish
Rebel which was delivered to his agents in June . IT
round for the pals , one of whom cries :
It is ribald , funny , brilliantly observant
10 note on to the bar and orders a
end ? The last scene of this fragment
of draught porter . But will we see its
of character , and authentic as a glass
is in a pub where the author throws a
thing this week I have never before witnessed ,
I AM happy to report that I saw some-
either in pictures or outside - a budgerigar
perfect timing and technique . It gives one loud ,
is either using a stand-in for the stunt
clear hiccup and falls flat on its back . This
Leicester-square ) , which suggests that it
in the cast list of Come September ( Odeon ,
brilliant budge , I may add , gets no credit
playing a drunk scene , and playing it with
The performance of our talented
good thing ( although the one original
the Dolce Vista for the picture ) in
styled , European set . Most of it has
than-average glossy comedy , Hollywood-
been shot in and around the
Portofino - and if there 's a better view
touch ) in the film , which is better-
feathered friend is not the only
sun-terrace of the Hotel Splendido ( renamed
been joined by a Jeep-load of boys .
themselves playing chaperon ( Brenda de Banzie , the official
Inevitably there comes the time when Mr. Hudson suddenly breaks
#
escorted tour . Result : Mr. Hudson and lady love Lollo find
inevitably , the place is full of American teenagers on an
with tradition and arrives there in July , when , just as
one , has broken a leg ) to the girls , who have just
in places and has a line or two of painful home truths
Gina , walking out on the man who has so far
thrown in . " I don't want to talk like an adult , " screams
It 's hereabouts that the budge takes to the bottle , but I
don't think it was through boredom . The film is funny enough
failed to make an honest woman of her .
Hudson can take one more hill than the
the chief spokesman of the jeans-and-
" He 's got to be 35 , " says Bobby Darin ,
get rid of old man , solid Rock . " How
Jeep brigadiers as they 're scheming to
many hills can he take ? " Of course Mr.
youngsters .
" That 's how I got into all this trouble . "
" good girl " parts ( Tuesday Weld gets the " bad girl "
middle-aged romancers respectably wed and
turning up as the typical teenager in all the
Sandra Dee ( to whom , I believe , he is married
Master Darin going steady with the delectable
So all ends as you know it will , with the
in real life ) . Miss Dee , incidentally , who keeps
ones ) , is becoming quite an accomplished actress .
certificate have to keep a sharp
but fun-films toting an X
slapstick . This has only one gag -
about with an X ? ) are of the witty ,
verbal variety and not the visual
THE Marriage-Go-Round ( Carlton )
that of the entry of a gladiator
sex ( what else would they joke
look-out that the jokes about
is also a comedy of manners ,
ture of Julie Newmar for con-
is an academic friend of her
The girl is a knock-out ( see pic-
mission in mind . She , " younger ,
intelligent " than the wife ( as she
soon tells her ) , wants to have the
Nobel prize-winning father to be
firmation ) . She also has quite a
perfect baby . And she has chosen
the husband ( James Mason ) , who
prettier , stronger , and more
time . I learned from it that in the Institutes of Advanced
Home-making and is now known as Domestic
The Marriage-Go-Round is not entirely a waste of
Relations .
Studies attached to some American universities
slightly sardonic handling . It doesn't get it . But
the subject Social Psychology used to be called
This sort of situation calls for some subtle ,
and sweetly . Mason is always good for
Michelangelo Antonioni .
Susan Hayward plays the wife sharply
stunner in every sense of the word .
is an earlier essay in atmospheric
her school . So help me so was I .
captain of the junior hockey team at
According to the script she was once
IL GRIDO ( The Cry ) - Paris Pullman -
a glower . And Miss Newmar is a
meandering by the L'Avventura man ,
ON a March evening in 1932 in the New
tiptoed into the baby's room to see that
20-month-old Charles Jun. was sleeping .
emptiness . A FEW minutes later the father
gripping a loaded rifle , told his wife :
Bending over the cot , she suddenly realised
She thrust out her hand - and felt
Jersey family household the nursemaid
that there was no sound of breathing .
floundered on to the electrocution
of the case itself , which
Bruno Richard Hauptmann , but
era .
and sensation-hunger of that
four years later of a German-
style all the more tellingly
The plain , sober manner of its
born Bronx carpenter named
to the raree-show emotionalism
points up not only the horror
possess a heritage of lace . A lace
these are proud possessions , linked to the
robe that each generation wears in turn -
Lucky indeed are the families that
to daughters , a lace-trimmed Christening
bridal veil handed down from mother
exquisite lace-making of the past .
lapse in good taste to destroy this lovely ,
over-furnishing of the Victorian age
lamentably low standards in the fussy
ustrations in the following pages will show
But lace-making is by no means a lost
temporary surroundings .
adapted itself to modern tastes and the ill-
but it would take more than a temporary
viable craft . It has , in fact , readily
art . It suffered a decline and fell into
how completely it is in sympathy with con-
one's own handiwork produce something
to avoid the ready-made in these and by
It will be seen how , with bold design
tatting in fine and medium-weight cottons
can give striking individuality to many things
in the home . Chairbacks , cushions , tablecloths ,
and rich colour , knitting , crochet and
that reflects true creative talent .
to mention only three - how satisfying it is
traditional patterns that we follow today were ,
and lovely touch to personal possessions -
insertion on a petticoat or blouse , a tatted edge
in fact , the brain-children of inventive men .
the feminine skills , a number of the well-loved
Although we assess lace-making as one of
a lace border to a handkerchief , fine-lace
threads may be reserved to bring a light
The more delicate patterns and finer
distinction that nothing else can give .
to a collar ; these add a charming , feminine
boys as well . Whole families made their
and worked lace as well as women and
For in the old order of things , men designed
special schools were set up to teach lace-
a folklore of song , festival and courtship grew
livelihood by lace-making and consequently
making not only to young girls , but to little
up around the lace industry .
During the sixteenth century a considerable
the time of Victoria this gentle craft was
convents of Europe . Without doubt it was the
was developed into quite an elaborate and distinctive
greatly abused .
nuns who carried the craft to Ireland . There it
amount of crochet was produced in the
form with rosettes , leaves and lace fillings . During
texture , are sold at a very high price . With a
produce fashion articles as elegant as those of
hand-crocheted blouses , gossamer fine in
little time and concentration the woman at home can
Paris - a blouse , delicate gloves or a fine
In some of the elegant boutiques of Paris
edging for collar , cuffs or a handkerchief .
In the home , crochet lace can be used to make
it is reasonably quick to work . In the following
functions . The art of crochet is not difficult and
crochet stitches .
tablecloths , traycloths and runners , and edgings
from heavy to fine can fulfil a variety of
pages simple diagrams and instructions are given
to enable the beginner to master all the essential
shape , ensuring that all lines of the crochet are
secure with pins . Run a line of basting stitches
accurate . Place crochet in correct position on linen and
which are to be attached to the linen . Remove crochet .
on the linen following the outline of the crochet edges
First launder crochet and then pin to the required
( a ) Button Stitch round the outline of basting stitches ,
( b ) Turn under a small hem , with fold lying on line
outside edge . Oversew crochet to button stitch .
the knotted part of the button stitch lying on the
this hem , with 3 dc at each corner .
Two methods can be used to join the crochet to the linen :
of basting stitches . Work a row of dc all round
are of the utmost importance to the worker .
preserves the beauty of the design . It is easy
It washes beautifully , never loses its colour
Coats Mercer-Crochet possesses qualities which
thickness - it is the ideal crochet thread .
to work with , soft , glossy and of uniform
nor becomes ' stringy ' , is very elastic and
Oversew crochet to the dc. A household word ,
the heavier threads are used for bedspreads ,
crochet hooks range in size from number 3/0 ,
Remember that texture plays an important part in
are more effective for the delicate designs used for
chairbacks , luncheon mats , etc. Crochet hooks
the largest , to number 8 , the smallest .
tablecloths , doilies , edgings and accessories , while
the beauty of crochet . The finer mercerised threads
are made of steel , composition or bone . Steel
specified in the directions . These are the
correct numbers to use with Mercer-Crochet :
size of thread . To ensure the correct results ,
it is important that you use the size of hook
Directions are given for a small practice
stitches , attractive articles can be made
from the directions included in this book .
you have become proficient in these
Each size of hook is made for use with a certain
piece for each stitch that you learn . When
rest near tip of hook .
of broad bar of hook as you would a
and forefinger ( Fig. 1 ) . 1 . Take hold
lapping long thread over short thread .
and forefinger . 2 . Make a loop by
1 . Grasp thread near end between thumb
3 . Hold loop in place between thumb
pencil . Bring middle finger forward to
thread . Catch long end of thread ( Fig. 2 ) .
the end of the hook , but not too tight
across palm and behind forefinger ( Fig. 4 ) .
( Fig. 3 ) . Loop thread round little finger ,
from thread . Pull short end and ball thread
in opposite directions to bring loop close around
2 . Insert hook through loop and under long
Draw loop through . 3 . Do not remove hook
worked in the solid , and this certainly
legs , and in reproduction period pieces they
extremely easy to work , the four sides being
A great deal of modern furniture has tapered
the more elaborate varieties , however , a toe is
complicates the operation .
are frequently used . The simpler varieties are
simply planed to give the required taper . In
For short ones a smoothing plane can be used .
The gauge can now be used to nick in the tapers
as before . It is unnecessary to mark the taper with
on the newly planed surfaces , and these treated
of the plane sole to make the tapered surfaces
the straight-edge as one relies upon the truth
straight .
accurate . The straight-edge can be used
end reveals when the required amount
has been removed , and if care is taken
to test the straightness of the sides .
to stop the plane short of the squared
A glance at the gauge marks at the bottom
pencil line at the top , the work will be
the outer surfaces being vertical as
begun . Some plain tapered legs have
complete any mortising that may be
at ( B ) , Fig. 1 . To make a leg such as
marked out as at ( A ) , Fig. 3 .
the taper on the two inner faces only ,
that at ( D ) , Fig. 1 , the square is first
needed at the top before the tapering is
Incidentally , it is better to
exactly down to the taper line ,
tent of the taper , and in
Note that squared lines marking
needed as well as the upper ex-
the top member of the toe are
this case it is necessary to
no farther .
mark in the line of the taper
with pencil and straight-edge
as at ( B ) , Fig. 3 . A saw cut is
made at the upper toe line
quickly ; it is less expensive than most
But why woodwork in particular ? Well , there
create a certain amount of mess , it is
it enables results to be obtained fairly
innumerable useful household items -
other materials ; it is a pleasant material
are many reasons . Wood is in good and
furniture , fitments , garden items , toys , etc. ;
all clean and easily cleared away .
common supply ; it lends itself to making
to work with ; and , although it does
are not only an economic necessity , but that a
This last point is certainly important because almost
ripping out parts from hardwood . Most men
would unhesitatingly use a machine if it
were available .
everyone has come to recognise that machines
example , surely no one can pretend to enjoy
great deal of drudgery can be avoided by the
installation of a power tool . As an elementary
any case may be regarded as a good beginning to
a man to make simple , straight-forward things , and in
made enormously .
nature of the work will probably dictate the additions
which other tools can be added as the need arises . The
most men have some of the tools already . It will enable
Coming now to the actual tools and their cost , we begin
to be made , but as a guide we have given a fuller kit
with what we have called a bare minimum kit . Probably
which increases the range of things that can be
the fuller kit ( which in its turn , of course ,
with a good basic kit , which includes
obvious .
includes the bare minimum kit ) .
As a still further development , we follow
certain special tools will become
With this the vast majority of jobs
can be done , though for advanced
cabinet work the necessity for
depend partly upon the space available
machines . They never are cheap in the
is prepared to pay , and the type of
machines , the choice of which will
long run . They may be inaccurate ,
in the workshop , the amount one
Do not buy so-called cheap tools or
Lastly , we suggest certain power tools and
work a man normally does . First ,
however , a word of advice generally .
not turn out quite right !
Most tools have to lead an intensive life , and faults
better to pay the fair price for a tool of good
in design or quality soon become apparent . It is far
yourself to blame the tools when the job does
quality , and not handicap yourself from the start .
To put it in a slightly different way , do not allow
place for tools . The combined bench top and
have to do their woodwork on the kitchen table .
Many men with only limited accommodation
are those of the vice , the bench stop , and storage
Providing this is sound , some perfectly good
designed and made for WOODWORKER
tool cupboard shown here has been specially
readers who have this difficulty .
work can be done on it , but the usual problems
timber can be used but Parana pine is
capable of withstanding the heavy handling of the
commercial articles , this chair is solidly built and
most destructive youngster . Almost any available
taking a good finish .
family man or father-to-be . Unlike many
recommended , being cheap , easy to work , and
HERE is a project that will be welcomed by the
can be altered if required .
feeding tray to slide over a 30 in. table , but the height
a smoothing plane , otherwise the marks left by the cutters
Start by making the two side frames from 1 in. by 1 1/4 in. planed
will show up after painting . The dimensions given enable the
been machine planed , remember to go over each piece with
timber as shown in Fig. 1 . Although the timber will have already
All the joints are simple halving joints glued and pinned ,
which should nevertheless be cut with care to ensure a neat
appearance . The side frames are joined by four cross pieces
cut to fit them .
each 1 1/4 in. by 1/2 in. by 14 in. which fit into the recesses ( C ) ,
the frame with panel pins to complete
pinned into place . A similar piece of 1 in.
by 1 1/4 in. by 14 in. timber is fixed across
Fig. 3 which also shows how a piece of
See Fig. 2 . These are then glued and
the end of the feeding tray as seen in
hardboard is covered with plastic material
the feeding tray .
for easy cleaning and then fixed underneath
chair . The seat rests across the upper two
is made from 1 1/4 in. by 1/2 in. timber .
Cut this piece of hardboard so that it
cross pieces and is made of 1/2 in. plywood
glued and panel pinned in position , measurements
being taken directly from the work . Fig. 4
shows the framework for the back which
fits up against the front legs of the
B temporarily in place on the chair
Fix the piece A to the sides first
also the height is left to personal choice
with glue and panel pins and then fit
and the width is best taken directly
from the work to ensure a good fit .
the frame together with the piece
frame .
The amount of the backward tilt and
Decide on the required angle of slope ,
pieces . These can then be cut at the correct
A piece of hardboard is then cut and pinned
off the exact position of B on the side
flush .
angle and B is glued and nailed in place .
keeping B flat on the chair seat , and mark
to the frame and its edges planed off
of angle irons as shown in Fig. 5 . When determining
by 4 in. attached to the front legs with a pair
the position of the footrest , do not place too near
screws driven from the inside . The footrest is a
Finally attach the back firmly to the sides with
the seat to allow for the growth of baby's legs .
piece of timber 14 in. long and about 1/2 in.
made by shaping and soldering two pieces of stout
considerable pulling as the child becomes older .
inside of the chair arms about 2 1/2 in. from the
wire as shown in Fig. 6 . Make sure that these
To complete the job , screw two fittings to the
are well secured as they will have to withstand
back to hold the baby's safety harness . These can be
woodfiller in the usual way and paint the frame in
framework and round off any sharp edges ( such as the
Punch in all nail and panel pin heads and fill the holes
a suitable pastel shade , using a contrasting colour
a suitable nursery transfer .
for the seat and the back which can be decorated with
edge of the seat , feeding tray , etc ) . Fill the grain with a
with plastic wood . Then thoroughly glasspaper the whole
material that might be available as otherwise the
satisfying and worthwhile project .
paint would soon be scratched off .
Avoid using lead-based paint as this could prove poisonous
( J.H.P. ) BUILDING your own boat is a most
to cover the footrest with rubber or any such protective
if junior decides to bite the chair . Finally , it is as well
rowing dinghy many of which I have built and
margin of freeboard .
Here are the plans of a very seaworthy little
and an outboard motor with a comfortable
sold . It is especially designed for simplicity in
weighs only 60 lb. but can carry three people
construction , cheapness and lightness of weight ,
and measures approximately 8 ft. by 4 ft. She
For instance , in Canada we use galvanised nails
job is to make your moulds . In Fig. 1 it quotes 3/4 in. five-ply ,
always used brass screws , which are more expensive . The first
and cut to shape later .
in place of screws . We just bend them over and clamp
firmly by using a hammer on each side . Over here I 've
is nailed and glued together strongly , it may be marked
but to save money any scrap may be used , and if this
the moulds , make a frame of rough lumber as shown in
If you do not have a wooden floor on which to anchor
Columbia .
and shaping your little craft , upside-down . For cheapness
I recommend using Douglas Fir Plywood from British
Fig. 2 . The main idea is to have the moulds standing as
rigid as possible , for it is on these you will be building
a permanently water proof glue line . Be sure to
shilling .
This is hot pressed and resin bonded to ensure
This may be bought at any good timber merchants .
see that the edge bears the mark , P.M.B.C. Exterior .
wood of the same make , or oak or mahogany . For the
mahogany table which I bought at a sale for one
The transoms can be made of any sound five-ply
last one I made , I used the two flaps from an old
is difficult to obtain here and expensive . I overcome
and easy to make . As will be seen from the plan
I find that the type of rowlock we use in Canada
there is only a single gunwale on the outside .
rowing this dinghy ( Fig. 3 ) . They are very simple , cheap
this in another way as shown in Fig. 4 .
I have also included a sketch of paddles I make for
Cut the moulds and the
use a heavy old base as in
Fig. 2 .
transoms to shape as in the
detailed drawings . If you have
if not , use a strong horizontal
' A ' frames fastened to the floor
the ground or concrete floor . I
frame that will sit firmly on
a wooden floor you can use
The edges of the transoms should be bevelled to
correspond to the sides and bottom of the boat .
notches , as they are not fastened to the
the hull is under construction .
to allow for the chines to rest in these
Don't forget to cut out on each side of each mould
moulds , which will only be used whilst
in the plan , the transoms have a frame 1 in. by 1 in.
prefer spruce when available . As will be seen
on each side .
is joined to both transoms and lies in the grooves
The chine is the long stringer on each side which
ash , spruce or any long grained flexible wood . I
cut in the moulds . Each chine is made of oak ,
transom framing . Glue , screw and make fast .
The chines are morticed into this and butt up
spring them both at the same time over the
cut for this purpose in the stern or after
against the transom . Start at the bow and
slots cut in the moulds and into the notches
and this is the time to check before making fast
are equal on each side and that the transoms
are parallel horizontally . Next bevel the chines
to see that nothing is distorted . Ensure that
The skeleton of the boat will now take shape ,
the outside measurements from transom to transom
with a plane so that the bottom will fit snugly .
plan measurements but leave sufficient margin for
the other . If care is taken not to waste the
purpose , the sides from one , and the bottom from
ply , plenty of material is left over for the thwarts .
lengths of 8 ft. by 4 ft. ply for this
planing after fixing to the boat . Use your two
Cut out the bottom and sides accurately from the
the sides to the transom framing and the chine .
round the frame to the stern and clamp there . If
to plank the sides . Start again at the bows ,
clamping into position with a ' D ' clamp . Bend
Having trimmed up the chines , we are now ready
well . After generously covering with glue , screw
you have a third clamp use it in the centre as
Use 5/8 by No. 4 gauge screws ( brass ) or nail
the screw to allow for a good grip . Remember
about 4 in. apart and do not counter-sink in
to glue before screwing .
you are doing it that way . Use flat head screws
with inch and a quarter galvanized nails , if
the 1/4 in. ply . Make a very small hole for
necessary to be careful not to miss the chine with
trifle ; this can be cleaned up later . As you are
the bottom shaped transom facing .
the bottom , both for screwing to the chines and
Clean up with the plane ready for the bottom ,
the screws . I prefer spacing screws 3 in. apart for
which is cut in one piece . It should overlap just a
screwing and gluing this piece to the chines it is
shift them right out of the way . Place the boat right side
the rubbing strakes and you are ready to lift the boat off
Again , don't forget to glue . Now put on the keel and
the moulds . You won't want them again for this boat , so
working .
up on two boxes or trestles of convenient height for
one to fit the block .
with vertical members as shown in the plans . Make the
before riveting on the gunwales so that you do not put
four blocks for the rowlocks and mark their positions
a rivet where you will have to cut out the inside ( gunwale )
taking care to reinforce the sides of the dinghy at the seats
Fix on the gunwales and insert the thwarts ( seats )
WHEN an assortment of differently coloured materials are cut
I rivet my gunwales together through the side of the hull
undercoat and at least one coat of finishing paint .
with copper nails and roves . It greatly improves the
making fabric pictures or designs .
into a variety of shapes they can be combined by either
appearance and the strength . Paint with good marine primer ,
for framing and hanging on a wall , they may
article .
resulting panel utilized for decorating a useful
also be arranged into a design , and the
While these may ultimately be made into a picture
when 50 planes are engaged in spreading 1,500 tons
WE have not yet reached the stage in Britain
the stench of small game and birds dead from insecti-
of DDT and fuel oil over 3 million acres or when
witness described one sprayed area as literally rank with
cide poisoning .
20 million acres are sprayed with dieldrin . An eye-
of the misuse of chemicals in agriculture ,
are used in field trial tests .
some stations are carrying out useful research on
does the balance of nature by killing both pests
Wholesale chemical spraying , upsetting as it
number of American State Research Stations . Not
and predators , is viewed with concern by a
content with issuing bulletins on the dangers
pest control by biological means . Both native and
imported predatory insects and insect pathogens
States . Advertisements offer eggs of European ,
religiosa ) , both native and " immigrant " varieties ,
The biological control of pests in the garden
are used by gardeners in all parts of the United
is not new to the American gardener . Lady-
birds figure in press advertisements , their
Chinese or native forms of mantis .
sale being by the gallon . Praying mantis ( Mantis
northwards .
eating other insects . Nine blowflies
From the day it hatches in the spring
until it dies in the late autumn , the
praying mantis satisfies its voracity by
may be consumed at one sitting and
grasshopper while eating another .
the fully adult , 2 1/2-in.-long insect ,
is able to keep a firm hold on one
heuschrecken " ( Die Neue Brehm Bu"ckerei ,
According to Dr. Max Beier in " Fang-
1952 ) , the praying mantis is trecking
over vines and peachtrees .
many of the mantis of both types had died
first mantis had hatched from the very large
Meanwhile Mr. Moncrieff had sent me an
Because of the cool , wet weather , I had great
difficulty in breeding fruit flies and , after
egg-case on June 6 . Both the Chinese
egg-case of the Chinese mantis . The
and Spanish mantis , in the young stage
at any rate , are light brown in colour .
in my Kilner jars , I poured living mantis
three survived the journey ; one thrived
Grantham , Lincs , kindly offered to
A Gardeners Chronicle reader living in
greenhouse . Of the dozen Spanish mantis
mantis as a pest control in the cold
and the latest report I have is that
this mantis is still alive .
sent him by post on June 22 , only two or
cooperate with me in studying praying
since the end of the war , clay pots are
numerous small clay pots are used each
obtained at a comparable price , except the
no real substitute for clay that can be
have made headway , and although
year , they are fewer than they were 10
DESPITE the steady influx of substitutes
still in greatest demand . It is mostly
years ago . In the larger sizes there is still
in the smaller sizes that the substitutes
commercial nurseries for growing tomatoes
bituminized paper pots which are used on
necessarily apply to the larger sizes , as
10 per cent. , and where the handling and
brittle nature ; even with reasonably careful
storage facilities are not too good , these
smaller ones and are not normally thrown
they are not quite so fragile as the
handling , the annual losses are often around
about in quite the same way .
losses will be even greater . This does not
The main disadvantage of the clay pot is its
weather , which can be quite a headache in
they must have some protection from severe
broken pots have on occasions provided
from any point of view .
and difficult things to accommodate and
a small garden . While admitting that
half-broken pots is an unlovely sight
artists with delightful studies , there is no
doubt that a pile of badly stacked ,
The storage problem puts clay pots at a
definite disadvantage . They are fairly heavy
Every garden boy will agree that having to
a few years ago that he made the headlines
for having smashed a large number # to
relieve his feelings . On the small-to-medium
favour of their abolition ; in fact one
can be sterilized or washed by machine .
whereas on larger establishments the pots
establishment , it is a disagreeable chore
which nobody tackles with any enthusiasm ,
young man was so wholehearted about this
wash clay pots is a definite factor in
substitutes ; the former may last indefinitely
with luck , while the latter are often
to grow plants . In their proper setting they
comparison between clay pots and the various
a nostalgic affection for them .
efficient and congenial containers in which
It is not easy to make an economic
are not unattractive and , in spite of
their shortcomings , most gardeners have
expendable used only once . Clay pots are
safer stacking , though they are still
for the larger sizes , so they have the
wash . The deep rims make for neater and
Present-day pots are better finished , do
other hand , there is really no replacement
expensive and still get broken . On the
suitable container available in quantity
not get dirty so readily and are easier to
decided advantage of being the only
for fairly large plants .
condition .
Usually cylindrical or hexagonal in shape , they
pots for plant raising . These are compressed blocks of
Soil blocks are probably the oldest alternative to clay
are made of the same compost as would have
that it is used in a slightly moister
been used in a pot , the # only difference being
compost , made in a specially devised press to
simulate roughly the shape and size of a pot .
cucumbers , marrows , melons , cauliflowers ,
in the normal way , the only real difference
Seed is sown , or seedlings are pricked out into them
lupins and numerous others .
celery and onions , may all be raised in soil
blocks ; so can such flowering plants as
rose to avoid breaking the blocks with a spout
being that more of the watering is done through a
dahlias , chrysanthemums , salvias , sweet peas ,
of water . First-class plants of tomatoes ,
propagating ; there can be no progression to a
is that soil blocks can only be used for
potted .
to be moved ; it must be planted out or
larger block when the plant or seedling is ready
easily , is produced . The obvious limitation #
and a superior plant , which transplants more
One big advantage of soil blocks is an obvious
it is very little more trouble than normal potting ,
completely . Manufacturing the block and planting
one : the cost of a pot of any description is saved
The various types of small paper pots are very
results by buying a small hand-operated soil
block maker and use the money saved on
Many amateur gardeners might improve their
inclined to collapse if the plants are in them
useful for short-term operations , but are
buying small pots to improve their composts .
too long .
They are # quite useful for plants that are
nurseryman ; there is also considerable saving
in carriage costs because of their lightness .
and others not so good . A wide range of
their cheapness making them attractive to the
despatched to market or direct to customers ,
There are many types of plastic pots available ;
usually need less water than those in clay
plants grow quite well in plastic pots and
pots .
some expensive , some quite cheap ; some good
has been gained with them . Plastic pots
are usually more expensive than clay ones ,
will last a long time with normal care .
but they are almost indestructible and
manage , however , until a little experience
They are slightly more difficult to
of books . He uses his vocabulary to
how to do this for himself , with the help
so as to make it grow . He does not
find the answers .
simply pack new things into the store .
vocabulary to work on the existing store
The job of the teacher is to set the learner's
The solitary learner has to find out
ask questions and uses the books to
of us obstinately go on using it .
" mind " has given rise to endless
abolish it from the dictionary , most
controversy among philosophers and psycho-
a well-established learner and the world
your own philosopher , your own psychologist
will be at your feet . Although the word
logists , many of whom would like to
Thus learning how to learn means becoming
and your own teacher . You will then be
to detach the mind from the brain , and all the biological ,
essence of a man which is supposed to persist apart from
And then you get a knock on the head and all evidence of
" mind " vanishes , at any rate for some time . It seems very difficult
the basis of all those experiences and phenomena which
the body , and to reserve the more prosaic word " mind " for
close connection . There is a lot to be said for keeping the
are clearly associated with the brain .
surgical and pharmacological evidence points to a very
word " soul " to stand for what many believe to be the imperishable
gases and so on . Where has psychology got to in its
theories of " mind " ? Are there any ultimate units
picture of this " basis " of mental phenomena ?
The physicists have succeeded remarkably well ,
picture of the basis of such material phenomena
as chemical action , magnetism , the behaviour of
with the atomic theory , in giving a clear and detailed
Can we now put forward any reasonably clear
of mind akin to the atoms of matter ?
for basic units of mind has gone on and will
matter combine to form molecular compounds .
thought to combine together to form compound
experiences by analogy with the way atoms of
identified as elementary sensations . These were
be analysed into discrete bits . These bits were
But this view led to too many difficulties and
was finally abandoned . Nevertheless the search
doubtless continue , for it is the aim of science to
At one time it was thought that mind could indeed
discover ultimate units .
geometry .
units of geometry must be points . It would be more
sciences . For example the success of the atomic theory
correct to regard operations as the ultimate units of
We must beware , however , of supposing that there must be any
in physics might lead us to suppose that the ultimate
close analogy between the units of quite different
It is not an easy concept and if I try to make it
psychology in its search for ultimate units and here
There have been many conflicting tendencies in
but even so it may be better than a meaningless abstraction .
we can only indicate what seems to be the most promising
concept which is current today . It is known as the schema .
concrete it will be at the cost of over-simplification
and this feeling of queerness
They think there is something
psychologist I am constantly
mistaken belief that the
the wrong way round . As a
psychologist first looks into ...
inevitably " queer " about psychology
usually boils down to a quite
encountering this tendency
in friends and acquaintances .
It is the tendency to get things
nowadays most psychologists would agree that it is
For although looking inwards ( or " introspecting "
round " . He is far more likely to find out about how
one of the most unreliable methods of getting
his own mind works by looking at other people's .
as it is called ) , is not entirely ruled out ,
This is what I mean by " getting things the wrong way
any precise information .
person they observe his visible behaviour and then try
And so they prefer objective methods . Since they cannot
this behaviour . This is no more queer than the method
of the doctor who observes signs , and records symptoms ,
directly look into the mental processes of another
to give theoretical interpretations of what lies behind
and diagnoses the inner states responsible for them .
to be prepared to observe and make inferences about
all kinds of processes in other people , whether or not they
psychology is concerned - these patterns are the concern of
very little about the patterns of brain-activity which
He may never have had the disease himself but he
correspond with anything in his own experience . We know
the neuro-physiologists .
can nevertheless identify it . Similarly the psychologist has
provide our schemas , nor do we need to know as far as
therefore selected . A detailed age-structure was
compiled from personnel department records ,
five just fifty years of age .
weekly wage-earners up to chargehand level
The numerically largest group , consisting of male
thirty-three aged sixty-four years , and sixty-
teen men seventy years of age or older ,
revealing that there were ( at that time ) seven-
and in the works only , excluding the offices , was
A small panel was formed , not on a formally representative
those seventy years of age or older .
problems faced by older workers , and approached
from various levels in the firm . In due course
basis but rather of energetic and concerned individuals ,
the panel decided to seek further insight into the
fourth year , and opportunity has been taken
The Rubery , Owen scheme is now in its
to revise the course in the light of
5 . Financial planning 6 . Final discussion
now as follows : 1 . Personal adjustment 2 . Health
experience . Topics for the six weekly meetings
of one-and-a-half hours ( each held half in
company time , half in the man's time ) are
3 . Work and leisure 4 . Living arrangements
which takes place at company expense in a country or
taken part .
The weekend conference for the men and their wives ,
plenary sessions . Of the men reaching fifty years of age
discussions are arranged for the wives in addition to the
since the scheme started , 125 ( 37.2 per cent ) have
resort hotel , includes an address on ' The Woman's Point
of View ' and one on ' Making the Most of Health ' . Separate
personnel department or by an approach to
members of the panel responsible for the scheme .
fresher courses at the ages of fifty-five and sixty :
working out his ideas , either through the company's
the first of these is due in 1963 . Meanwhile , each
' graduate ' is encouraged to seek help and advice in
The original scheme was planned to provide short re-
Towards the end of 1956 , Mr. Daniel Grant ,
Workers' Educational Association , submitted
Hood , a copy of his report on an enquiry
advisers , but are prepared to seek out the
he had made into the problems that beset
an Employee Relations Officer of
Rolls-Royce Ltd. and a member of the
to the Lord Provost of Glasgow , Dr. Andrew
The latter do not regard themselves as expert
older workers and the effects of retirement
appropriate sources of information or advice .
Hugentobler Roger
Health of Retired Workers ' , and being satisfied that the matters
arranging a Conference on Preparation for and
committee representative of bodies particularly concerned with
The Lord Provost , having studied the report on ' The Morale and
the welfare of older people to examine the report and
its implications and to consider the advisability of
Glasgow and warranted further study , set an informal
raised were of considerable importance to the citizens of
Occupational Activities on Retirement .
reflected not only an increasing awareness
concerted action towards preparing men
crafts , hobbies and leisure-time interests
for those who are retired .
and women for life in retirement and more
The large attendance and atmosphere of
this Conference , held in October , 1957 ,
desire on the part of all concerned for
adequate provision of facilities for
of the problems of men and women nearing
or already in retirement but also a strong
of psychology , education and social science ; ... .
chairman and Mr. Andrew Atkinson as secretary . The
As a result , the Glasgow Retirement Council came
the Workers' Educational Association ; the University
Centres . The former consists of representatives from
the Glasgow Corporation Further Education Department ;
Preparation for Retirement , and on Occupational
Extra-Mural Education Committee and departments
Council has active committees on Education and
into being in April , 1958 , with Dr. Andrew Hood as
tober , 1959 , the first experimental day-release course for
to let older employees attend day-release courses on preparation
men was organised . Eleven students from seven firms atten-
of Education for Glasgow , that industrial firms might be ready
to the men and their employers that the venture was an
experiment from which the organisers hoped to learn as much
ded a course on six full Fridays and it was made clear both
for retirement , their wages paid for the time thus spent . An
In 1959 it was suggested by Mr. T. M. Banks , Assistant Director
as the participants .
approach was made to about twenty large firms and in Oc-
and retirement according to the occupational
in what aspects ? 3 . Does the evidence
level of employees ? 2 . If so , which occupational
a pre-retirement planning and preparation
levels are the better or the poorer prepared
obtained support a rationale for adapting
programme to the needs of older employees
1 . Are there differences in adjustment to ageing
for successful adjustment to retirement and
of different occupational levels ?
itself . Remember your four names - have the list
with you if you like - and you simply can't
be flummoxed ! Of course , in any speech a good
start and a good finish are half the battle .
things in a different way . All the better ! - it will
sound much more spontaneous on the occasion
Each time you rehearse you will probably put
But there is no need to be frightened . The audience
So - see the next page ! Yes , they are waiting for you .
I have not had much experience of public speaking .
you offer them . A good start will put them in a
will eat out of your hand - if they like what
good humour . Ladies and gentlemen ! I 'm afraid
rate , have proved that wrong . And they say , too ,
intelligence .
are a novice ? It 's their interest you want - not their
GO ! Try something like this : It is said that tele-
sympathy . And you want to get it from the word
But that 's a terrible way to begin ! Why tell them you
vision keeps people at home . But you , at any
that television makes its appeal to those of lesser
May I suggest that you have proved that
your speech . Take some thought , too , for your ending .
didn't get in ! Instead he might have ended
this way : Well , those are my views .
candidate often used that finish . No wonder he
Thank you for listening to me so patiently . A political
right ! Congratulations ! And away you go into
Camp , aged thirty-three , the girl who was to have
been his bride . There was little doubt of how
grief-stricken duty formally to identify Elizabeth
taken to St Thomas's Hospital it was his
had been murder .
became greatly alarmed , and after the body had been
she had met her death , and even less that it
When he learned what was causing the commotion he
She had been struck several times with a blunt
There were signs of a violent struggle , blood
to provide the only possible clue to the killer .
on the cushions and floor , and the remains
of her broken umbrella . But a pair of bone
instrument , and her head was smashed in .
cuff-links found in the compartment seemed
in the evening she had called on her two sisters ,
robbery , and this was further confirmed when a
other at Hounslow , where she kept a shop .
check was made with the woman's relations in
Good Intent , a public-house in Walworth . Her day
Hounslow . Miss Camp had been the housekeeper at the
established that no sexual assault had taken place .
one of whom lived at Hammersmith and the
The body was examined , and it was definitely
It seemed probable that the motive had been
off was Thursday , and before coming up to London
and arrived at Hounslow around 5 P.M. , where
to the station , helping her with some of
she had tea with her other sister , and then
her packages . This sister was able to establish
that she had carried a green purse and
had bought a railway ticket .
went to catch the 7.42 . Her sister saw her
Elizabeth had left Hammersmith in the late afternoon ,
was found at Waterloo . Neither the sisters nor Mr Berry thought it
compartment when the train left , but this did not help much , since it
supported the sister's statement that Elizabeth Camp had been alone in her
likely that she had been carrying much money . A porter at Hounslow
had made stops at nine stations before Waterloo .
But both purse and ticket , and the packages , were gone when the body
killer to book in modern times .
no easy task , but one in which patience and method
and perhaps evidence enough to have brought a
sticking to it . The murder weapon , more than likely ,
Putney and Wandsworth they found a bloodstained
pestle such as chemists use , with some hairs
The police began a systematic search of the line -
paid off . At a spot on the embankment between
might have yielded . It was a tough case to
no experts to check and photograph any ' dabs ' it
disguised another motive , and a thorough check
overlook the possibility that this might have
Police , and Chief Inspector Marshall , of Scotland
attacked for the sake of robbery , they did not
Yard , combined forces in the investigation . While
tackle , and Superintendent Robinson , of the L.S.W.R.
accepting the likelihood that Miss Camp had been
But in 1897 , alas ! there was no fingerprint bureau ,
of her former men friends and acquaintances began .
one of that new class of merchant financiers
harrying English shipping as far away as Cherbourg ,
resources , and captured the young Mercer in a
A Scottish knight - Sir John Mercer - was
which the city of London was now producing , fitted ,
equipped and manned a fleet from his own
imprisoned in England . His son , in revenge , was
brilliant Channel fight .
and doing it to some purpose . John Philpot ,
a walk over the fields while we attended
rather indignant , but we took the
a farmer in a field . He seemed
said he had been stopped by
after the Dedication , the Archbishop
when we met at tea at the rectory
to our business . To my amusement ,
episode without a smile till afterwards .
Dr. Davidson said he would go for
The Hall proved most useful , especially in winter
was translated to Winchester , and Dr. Hubert
coming to Sunday Evensong . We managed to furnish
Burge became Bishop of Southwark .
appreciated the Church Hall for worship as well
when the distance to the church deterred many from
a table with cross and candles , and the people
as for more secular purposes . In 1910 Dr. Talbot
the incumbent of the highest church in the
religious instruction through the Diocese , and I
Meanwhile I had been asked to do a bit of Diocesan
also found myself a member of the Diocesan
Diocese .
work in connection with Higher Religious Education , and
to become the Southwark Secretary of the Church Reading
Union . This meant organizing lectures and courses of
Conference , where I remember introducing myself as
There was a somewhat shocked atmosphere in
work was growing pretty heavy , and we managed
was 800 feet high above the sea level ! The
some quarters , until I explained that my church
to get a stipendiary layman who could help
among the children and young people .
in Bavaria to witness the Passion Play . The place and its people were
performed at the small theatre in the village , when new talent would
war broke out in 1914 , I spent my summer holidays there and became
be discovered and trained .
to play an important part in my life . For five years in succession till
very intimate with the people and the environs . Every year between the
Passion Plays , an interval of ten years , another play would be
It was while I was at Tatsfield that I first visited Oberammergau
the end of a few months an enthusiastic choir of men and women
and lead the others . As for basses and altos the conductor had to
First of all simple part-songs : I found only one member who had
old school friend at Clifton . He could sustain the tenor part quite well
could render simple part-singing tolerably well .
any idea of reading music . This was the village doctor who was an
teach by singing the parts with them . It was very amusing , and by
and we were all happy .
gave a concert at which the accompanist was the village schoolmaster ,
Then we went to work on Coleridge Taylor's ' Hiawatha's
Wedding Feast . ' Enthusiasm grew , and in a few more months we
Friends from Limpsfield , in addition to the villagers , came up ,
and the tenor solo ' Onaway awake ' was sung by the Rector .
years a most able and devoted housekeeper whom I had known
church .
well in Limpsfield where she had a house next to the
Very soon we managed to get a hut in Purley where soldiers
in those years more than busy . We now had a vicarage next
to the church , and I was most fortunate in having for eight
were very welcome and the ladies organized a canteen . Life was
On hearing that I was to leave Tatsfield and come to
who was the only other occupant of the house when
Purley she offered to come and look after me . She was
Mr. Evitt had gone .
a real treasure , of yeoman stock and clever in all domestic
things , a widow who knew how to look after the ' boy , '
picture given them and the lesson was
ster at her own home . Each child had a
the superintendent who filled in the regi-
had to miss the Sunday Church from any cause
church , they could just whisper to
We gathered together a splendid Sunday
clamour for back stamps if a child
their book , and there was quite a
largely based on this . It was on a
afternoon service at the church , each child
stamp which could be stuck in
being given a number which , as they came into
naughty child with the penalty of not being
the children enjoyed the service , and I heard
are parents or even grandparents
they were a most delightful lot , and
it is a great joy to meet them now
on Sunday afternoon . I hope the threat
kept them good in the week , but anyway
allowed to come to the Children's Church
It was quite amusing to see how much
of parents or faithful nurses threaten any
fifty years afterwards when so many
me at once to chronicle a most intimate and
sons was just coming into the world in this year
lasting friendship begun in 1913 in Purley and
and his family , the youngest of whose three
to St. Mark's , the first contact I made was
Speaking of churchwardens and children leads
with the Vicar's Warden , Mr. F. W. Charlton
of 1913 .
continuing till old age to-day . When I went
From then till now the acquaintance ripened into a very
all the many vicissitudes of a long ministry . Mr. and
Mrs. Charlton have been from the first difficult
some tempers were easily frayed , the most
deep friendship which I have taken with me through
loyal and devoted friends .
years of war , when most lives were upset and
lived on in Purley - have always been
were in our Children's Church from the
another we do not forget .
outset , and when we don't see one
failed . Their three boys , now successful men ,
Their homes - for since those years they have
havens of rest , and the welcome has never
frequently , establishing at once a friendly contact with
at the Royal Herbert Hospital , full of war prisoners .
In those early years 1914-18 , life was very full
both in the parish and in the wider war activities .
The Bishop , knowing that I spent my holidays in
Bavaria , asked me if I would do something for two wards
the Bavarian wounded who were delighted to find
I was very glad to help in this way , and visited them
someone who knew their native villages .
scorned these more simple country folk .
I could at once notice the great antagonism
between the Bavarians and the Prussians who openly
general system of " francs-tireurs " , to be named
lead to disaster . Then there had been much talk of
Less than no response from the Russian side led
" Werewolves " .
outcome that the Nazis evidently hoped might
one to fear that the event might well have the
the setting up among the German population of a
thousand of Nazi rule , so far from creating
universally a dull bewildered apathy .
meeting of East and West was marked by
more than a fantasy . Thanks to the good
sense of the front line soldiers , the
vodka . And the effect on the German people
of the first ten years of the promised
the use of no weapon more lethal than
a spirit of warlike frenzy , had produced
The Nazi fortress concept turned out to be nothing
" Werewolves " that we had contemplated the necessity of very
special precautions to guard the lives of our airmen . Particular
and death over Germany , causing such wholesale slaughter among
So far had our thinking led us in this matter of the
men , women and children , old and young alike .
those who had , over the years , spread such ghastly havoc , destruction
hatred , we felt , was bound to be aimed at the representatives of
By the end of the month he still delighted in
is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ;
other man was a priest : here the priest is
much as his health permitted him to enjoy any-
Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as
1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change
fine . '
thing . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which
people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every
# he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively
in my eye , particularly as the troops are very
permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' ,
every other man was a priest : here the
he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great
resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he
priest is 1superceded by the soldier -
By the end of the month he still delighted
in Naples . He told Cloncurry that he
enjoyed it as much as his health
is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively
people , and what a busy town . At Rome ,
a favourable change in my eye ,
much as his health permitted him to enjoy anything .
By the end of the month he still delighted in
resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is going
a busy town . At Rome , every other man was a
Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as
as the troops are very fine . '
' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great
soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly
out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what
priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the
He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his
other man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by
health permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he
the soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly
as the troops are very fine . '
wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius
seems to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay ,
lively people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every
By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples .
the troops are very fine . '
told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health permitted
Rome , every other man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded
By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He
a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is going out
by the soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly as
him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is
fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what a busy town . At
Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health
and what a busy town . At Rome , every other man was
By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He told
favourable change in my eye , particularly as the troops
arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be
permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is
are very fine . '
a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the soldier - a
tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively people ,
his health permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The
particularly as the troops are very fine . '
was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by
resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is
the soldier - a favourable change in my eye ,
what a busy town . At Rome , every other man
He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as
By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples .
going out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and
Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great
health permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he
as the troops are very fine . '
He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his
man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by
the soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly
seems to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay ,
wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius
lively people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every other
By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples .
At Rome , every other man was a priest :
By the end of the month he still delighted in
it as much as his health permitted him to
enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived ,
which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems
a gay , lively people , and what a busy town .
here the priest is 1superceded by the
Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed
particularly as the troops are very fine . '
to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What
soldier - a favourable change in my eye ,
in my eye , particularly as the troops are
people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every
anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which
By the end of the month he still delighted in
1superceded by the soldier - a favourable change
much as his health permitted him to enjoy
very fine . '
is a great resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ;
he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively
Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as
other man was a priest : here the priest is
' is arrived , which is a great resource . Vesuvius seems
told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as much as his health
man was a priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the
the troops are very fine . '
permitted him to enjoy anything . ' The Pearl ' , he wrote ,
soldier - a favourable change in my eye , particularly as
to be tired ; he is going out fast ... . What a gay , lively
people , and what a busy town . At Rome , every other
By the end of the month he still delighted in Naples . He
priest : here the priest is 1superceded by the
busy town . At Rome , every other man was a
Naples . He told Cloncurry that he enjoyed it as
out fast ... . What a gay , lively people , and what a
much as his health permitted him to enjoy anything .
By the end of the month he still delighted in
resource . Vesuvius seems to be tired ; he is going
particularly as the troops are very fine . '
' The Pearl ' , he wrote , ' is arrived , which is a great
soldier - a favourable change in my eye ,
When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl
back to England , and returned to Rome for the
The journey has been against me , as there has
usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find
is high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... .
been much rain and damp , but the temperature
this place agree with me better than Naples .
winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as
Naples . The journey has been against
damp , but the temperature is high
me , as there has been much rain and
November , he was ' suffering as usual ' ,
& I have not yet thought of a fire ... .
this place agree with me better than
to Rome for the winter . In late
Pearl back to England , and returned
When the sailing season was past , he sent
but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find
to England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In
me better than Naples . The journey has been
but the temperature is high & I have not
late November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped ,
against me , as there has been much rain and damp ,
When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back
yet thought of a fire ... .
he told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with
When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl
the winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as
has been against me , as there has been much rain and
place agree with me better than Naples . The journey
thought of a fire ... .
damp , but the temperature is high & I have not yet
back to England , and returned to Rome for
usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this
When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to
England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late
November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he
told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than
Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has
high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... .
been much rain and damp , but the temperature is
me , as there has been much rain and damp , but the temperature
is high & I have not yet thought of a fire ... .
When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to
place agree with me better than Naples . The journey has been against
was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this
England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late November , he
England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late
Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples .
When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to
yet thought of a fire ... .
November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told
The journey has been against me , as there has been much
rain and damp , but the temperature is high & I have not
temperature is high & I have not yet thought of
When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to
there has been much rain and damp , but the
November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he
than Naples . The journey has been against me , as
told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better
England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late
a fire ... .
When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to
been much rain and damp , but the temperature is high
England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late
& I have not yet thought of a fire ... .
Naples . The journey has been against me , as there has
told Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than
November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he
the winter . In late November , he was ' suffering
temperature is high & I have not yet
thought of a fire ... .
this place agree with me better than Naples .
back to England , and returned to Rome for
When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl
has been much rain and damp , but the
The journey has been against me , as there
as usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find
place agree with me better than Naples . The
back to England , and returned to Rome for the
much rain and damp , but the temperature is high
& I have not yet thought of a fire ... .
# winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as
journey has been against me , as there has been
usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this
When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl
thought of a fire ... .
England , and returned to Rome for the winter . In late
When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl back to
Arthur , ' to find this place agree with me better than Naples .
November , he was ' suffering as usual ' , but hoped , he told
The journey has been against me , as there has been much rain
and damp , but the temperature is high & I have not yet
place agree with me better than Naples . The journey
winter . In late November , he was ' suffering as
usual ' , but hoped , he told Arthur , ' to find this
When the sailing season was past , he sent Pearl
& I have not yet thought of a fire ... .
has been against me , as there has been much
rain and damp , but the temperature is high
back to England , and returned to Rome for the
temporary assumption of the government by
one word of English . ' While he was writing
de Chambre that ever was . But he has not
A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I
the Duke of Wellington .
this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the
have an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet
ever was . But he has not one word
assumption of the government by
the Duke of Wellington .
this letter he heard of the fall of
of English . ' While he was writing
A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens
that I have an Italian who is perhaps
the Whigs , and the temporary
the best Valet de Chambre that
the government by the Duke of Wellington .
A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an
While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall
of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of
ever was . But he has not one word of English . '
Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that
the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the govern-
ever was . But he has not one word of English . '
A pleasant life # truly ! ... It so happens that I have
an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that
ment by the Duke of Wellington .
While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of
Duke of Wellington .
writing this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and
A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian
who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was .
But he has not one word of English . ' While he was
the temporary assumption of the government by the
who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he
has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this letter he
heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption
of the government by the Duke of Wellington .
A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian
he has not one word of English . ' While he was writing this
who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that ever was . But
assumption of the government by the Duke of Wellington .
A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an Italian
letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary
of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of
the government by the Duke of Wellington .
A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have
that ever was . But he has not one word of English . '
an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre
While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall
government by the Duke of Wellington .
that ever was . But he has not one word of English . '
A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have
of the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the
an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre
While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall
has not one word of English . ' While he was
the Whigs , and the temporary assumption of
A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that
the government by the Duke of Wellington .
Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he
I have an Italian who is perhaps the best
writing this letter he heard of the fall of
A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have
an Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de
heard of the fall of the Whigs , and the temporary
of English . ' While he was writing this letter he
Chambre that ever was . But he has not one word
assumption of the government by the Duke of
Wellington .
by the Duke of Wellington .
While he was writing this letter he heard of the fall of the
ever was . But he has not one word of English . '
Whigs , and the temporary assumption of the government
Italian who is perhaps the best Valet de Chambre that
A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that I have an
by the Duke of Wellington .
not one word of English . ' While he was writing
I have an Italian who is perhaps the best
A pleasant life truly ! ... It so happens that
this letter he heard of the fall of the Whigs , and
Valet de Chambre that ever was . But he has
the temporary assumption of the government
upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be
what may happen ... .
' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble !
a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows
I really tremble for my country ! I may be
exasperation of the People will be so great at the
What infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but
mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the
return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons House
return of Ultratoryism , that the
Commons House upon a dissolution ,
of Radicalism , & then God knows what
' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble !
indifferent , but I really tremble for my
but fear that the exasperation of
the People will be so great at the
What infatuation ! Personally I am
country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot
may happen ... .
which must be had , will be a mass
cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People
will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism ,
God knows what may happen ... .
tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I
# ' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble !
What infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really
that the Commons House upon a dissolution , which
must be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then
' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What
will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism ,
be had , will be a mass of Radicalism , & then God
tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho'
I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the People
infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really
that the Commons House upon a dissolution , which must
knows what may happen ... .
great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons
for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot
House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a
but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so
mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... .
tuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble
' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infa-
Commons House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be
People will be so great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the
be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the
' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What infatuation !
Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble for my country ! I may
a mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... .
' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What
upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a mass
but fear that the exasperation of the People will be so great
infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really
at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons House
of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... .
tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot
' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What
of the People will be so great at the return of
dissolution , which must be had , will be a mass
infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really
tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken ,
1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation
happen ... .
Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon a
of Radicalism , & then God knows what may
' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What
infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble
House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a
for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but
great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons
fear that the exasperation of the People will be so
mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... .
may happen ... .
' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What
so great at the return of Ultratoryism ,
Radicalism , & then God knows what
the exasperation of the People will be
be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but fear that
infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent ,
that the Commons House upon a dissolution ,
which must be had , will be a mass of
but I really tremble for my country ! I may
a dissolution , which must be had , will be a
Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon
I cannot but fear that the exasperation of the
mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what
may happen ... .
tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho'
' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What
infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really
People will be so great at the return of
infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I really tremble
great at the return of Ultratoryism , that the Commons
fear that the exasperation of the People will be so
for my country ! I may be mistaken , 1tho' I cannot but
' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What
House upon a dissolution , which must be had , will be a
mass of Radicalism , & then God knows what may happen ... .
mass of Radicalism , & then God knows
infatuation ! Personally I am indifferent , but I
1tho' I cannot but fear that the exasperation of
the People will be so great at the return of
dissolution , which must be had , will be a
what may happen ... .
Ultratoryism , that the Commons House upon a
really tremble for my country ! I may be mistaken ,
' What a frightful event ! ' he wrote . ' I tremble ! What
God grant , however , that I may be a
an express took him off yesterday . '
of the numerous conventional remedies
Sir R. Peel was here , I understand , but
a new chapter in the history of
to which he had been subjected ever
Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective
false prophet & that all may go well .
While he was in Naples there had opened
alleviation of his painful malady . None
off yesterday . '
I understand , but an express took him
had the slightest effect .
first shown themselves seventeen years before had
God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet
& that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here ,
chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search
None of the numerous conventional remedies to which
for an effective alleviation of his painful malady .
While he was in Naples there had opened a new
he had been subjected ever since the symptoms had
malady . None of the numerous conventional remedies
to which he had been subjected ever since the symp-
While he was in Naples there had opened a
search for an effective alleviation of his painful
God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet &
new chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing
toms had first shown themselves seventeen years before
that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I under-
had had the slightest effect .
stand , but an express took him off yesterday . '
God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that
subjected ever since the symptoms had first shown them-
an express took him off yesterday . '
the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an
all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand , but
selves seventeen years before had had the slightest effect .
While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in
effective alleviation of his painful malady . None of the
numerous conventional remedies to which he had been
shown themselves seventeen years before had had the slightest effect .
may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand , but an express
which he had been subjected ever since the symptoms had first
his painful malady . None of the numerous conventional remedies to
history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective alleviation of
God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that all
While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in the
took him off yesterday . '
seventeen years before had had the slightest effect .
ever since the symptoms had first shown themselves
While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter in
the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an effective
conventional remedies to which he had been subjected
God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet
& that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand ,
alleviation of his painful malady . None of the numerous
but an express took him off yesterday . '
While he was in Naples there had opened a new
yesterday . '
here , I understand , but an express took him off
malady . None of the numerous conventional
since the symptoms had first shown them-
remedies to which he had been subjected ever
selves seventeen years before had had the slightest effect .
chapter in the history of Anglesey's unceasing
& that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was
God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet
search for an effective alleviation of his painful
God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet
slightest effect .
in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an
effective alleviation of his painful malady . None of the
While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter
& that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand ,
but an express took him off yesterday . '
themselves seventeen years before had had the
subjected ever since the symptoms had first shown
numerous conventional remedies to which he had been
ous conventional remedies to which he had
had first shown themselves seventeen years . .
been subjected ever since the symptoms
of his painful malady . None of the numer-
unceasing search for an effective alleviation
prophet & that all may go well . Sir R. Peel
While he was in Naples there had opened a
God grant , however , that I may be a false
new chapter in the history of Anglesey's
was here , I understand , but an express took
him off yesterday . '
While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter
& that all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I
had been subjected ever since the symptoms had
God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet
an effective alleviation of his painful malady . None
understand , but an express took him off yesterday . '
had had the slightest effect .
in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for
first shown themselves seventeen years before
of the numerous conventional remedies to which he
While he was in Naples there had opened a new chapter
in the history of Anglesey's unceasing search for
been subjected ever since the symptoms had first
God grant , however , that I may be a false prophet & that
shown themselves seventeen years before had had the
but an express took him off yesterday . '
an effective alleviation of his painful malady . None
all may go well . Sir R. Peel was here , I understand ,
slightest effect .
of the numerous conventional remedies to which he had
which he had been subjected ever since the
history of Anglesey's unceasing search for an
effective alleviation of his painful malady .
was here , I understand , but an express took
years before had had the slightest effect .
there had opened a new chapter in the
prophet & that all may go well . Sir R. Peel
symptoms had first shown themselves seventeen
God grant , however , that I may be a false
him off yesterday . ' While he was in Naples
None of the numerous conventional remedies to
known as homoeopathy had been brought to
of death , the new German curative method
in the 1960s , no cure has been found for
his notice .
Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today ,
Anglesey believed himself to be on the point
the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when
Nor is this to be wondered at , for even
today , in the 1960s , no cure has been
found for the 6tic douloureux . As early
German curative method known as
to be on the point of death , the new
his notice .
as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself
homoeopathy had been brought to
Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of
6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when
homoeopathy had been brought to his notice .
Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in
the 1960s , no cure has been found for the
death , the new German curative method known as
1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux .
on the point of death , the new German curative method
known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice .
As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be
Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the
1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic
curative method known as homoeopathy had been
brought to his notice .
douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed
himself to be on the point of death , the new German
Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the
brought to his notice .
1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on the point of death ,
Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s ,
the new German curative method known as homoeopathy had been
no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As early as
Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the 1960s ,
early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on the
homoeopathy had been brought to his notice .
no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As
point of death , the new German curative method known as
Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in
method known as homoeopathy had been
6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when
brought to his notice .
point of death , the new German curative
Anglesey believed himself to be on the
the 1960s , no cure has been found for the
as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice .
Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the
1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux . As
early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be on
the point of death , the new German curative method known
Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today ,
the 6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when
point of death , the new German curative
Anglesey believed himself to be on the
method known as homoeopathy had been
in the 1960s , no cure has been found for
brought to his notice .
the 1960s , no cure has been found for the
6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when Anglesey
homoeopathy had been brought to his notice .
believed himself to be on the point of death ,
Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in
the new German curative method known as
As early as 1830 , when Anglesey believed himself to be
known as homoeopathy had been brought to his notice .
on the point of death , the new German curative method
1960s , no cure has been found for the 6tic douloureux .
Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today , in the
point of death , the new German curative
in the 1960s , no cure has been found for the
method known as homoeopathy had
Nor is this to be wondered at , for even today ,
been brought to his notice .
Anglesey believed himself to be on the
6tic douloureux . As early as 1830 , when
had studied under its founder , the aged
that it was being cultivated with extraordinary
himself was being treated under a doctor who
advise Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding
the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law ,
Dr. Samuel Hahnemann .
success in France and Italy , and that he
give the system a trial , adding that it
success in France and Italy , and that
In April of that year his first wife's
founder , the aged Dr. Samuel
he himself was being treated under a
was being cultivated with extraordinary
brother-in-law , the diplomatist Lord
Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey to
Hahnemann .
doctor who had studied under its
France and Italy , and that he himself was being
the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise
it was being cultivated with extraordinary success in
its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann .
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law ,
treated under a doctor who had studied under
Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that
and that he himself was being treated under a doctor
who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel
cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy ,
diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey
to give the system a trial , adding that it was being
Hahnemann .
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the
cultivated with extraordinary success in France and Italy ,
and that he himself was being treated under a doctor
who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the
Hahnemann .
diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey
to give the system a trial , adding that it was being
system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated with extraordinary
Samuel Hahnemann .
success in France and Italy , and that he himself was being treated
under a doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged Dr.
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the
diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey to give the
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the
diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey
to give the system a trial , adding that it was being cultivated
with extraordinary success in France and Italy , and that he
under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann .
himself was being treated under a doctor who had studied
success in France and Italy , and that he
himself was being treated under a doctor who
that it was being cultivated with extraordinary
Dr. Samuel Hahnemann .
advise Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding
had studied under its founder , the aged
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law ,
the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to
Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a
the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise
being cultivated with extraordinary success in France and
doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged
Dr. Samuel Hahnemann .
Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that it was
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law ,
with extraordinary success in France and
treated under a doctor who had studied
In April of that year his first wife's brother-
Italy , and that he himself was being
a trial , adding that it was being cultivated
written to advise Anglesey to give the system
in-law , the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had
Hahnemann .
under its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law ,
was being cultivated with extraordinary success in
France and Italy , and that he himself was being
Anglesey to give the system a trial , adding that it
its founder , the aged Dr. Samuel Hahnemann .
treated under a doctor who had studied under
the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise
Italy , and that he himself was being treated under a
Dr. Samuel Hahnemann .
In April of that year his first wife's brother-in-law , the
diplomatist Lord Ponsonby , had written to advise Anglesey
cultivated with extraordinary success in France and
doctor who had studied under its founder , the aged
to give the system a trial , adding that it was being
cultivated with extraordinary success in
being treated under a doctor who had
Dr. Samuel Hahnemann .
In April of that year his first wife's
France and Italy , and that he himself was
brother-in-law , the diplomatist Lord Ponsonby ,
had written to advise Anglesey to give the
system a trial , adding that it was being
studied under its founder , the aged
among unorthodox medical men in the cities
Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted
as ' more like a God upon earth than a human
This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis
being ' , had an increasing number of disciples
Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later
in # May 1834 .
of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan ,
later as ' more like a God upon earth than
of disciples among unorthodox medical men
was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro ,
Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two
in the cities of Europe . One of these
This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis
a human being ' , had an increasing number
whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 .
disciples among unorthodox medical men in the
cities of Europe . One of these was the
a human being ' , had an increasing number of
consulted in May 1834 .
later as ' more like a God upon earth than
This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis
Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey
Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two
' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' ,
had an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox
consulted in May 1834 .
Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as
This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis
was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey
medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these
of disciples among unorthodox medical men in the cities of
described to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God
whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 .
This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett
Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro ,
upon earth than a human being ' , had an increasing number
to Anglesey a year or two later as ' more like a God upon earth
unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these was
than a human being ' , had an increasing number of disciples among
This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis Burdett described
the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in
May 1834 .
increasing number of disciples among unorthodox medical
This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis
men in the cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan ,
Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 .
Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as
' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had an
had an increasing number of disciples among
One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro ,
Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as
' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' ,
This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis
unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe .
whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 .
medical men in the cities of Europe . One of these
' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' , had
Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as
Anglesey consulted in May 1834 .
an increasing number of disciples among unorthodox
was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom
This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis
year or two later as ' more like a God
of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan ,
This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir
consulted in May 1834 .
upon earth than a human being ' , had
Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a
Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey
an increasing number of disciples among
unorthodox medical men in the cities
This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir
a human being ' , had an increasing number of
May 1834 .
Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey consulted in
disciples among unorthodox medical men in the
Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two
cities of Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan ,
later as ' more like a God upon earth than
This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir Francis
Burdett described to Anglesey a year or two later as
unorthodox medical men in the cities of Europe .
whom Anglesey consulted in May 1834 .
had an increasing number of disciples among
One of these was the Neapolitan , Dr Giuseppe Mauro ,
' more like a God upon earth than a human being ' ,
This remarkable man of medicine , whom Sir
consulted in May 1834 .
year or two later as ' more like a God
increasing number of disciples among
unorthodox medical men in the cities of
Francis Burdett described to Anglesey a
upon earth than a human being ' , had an
Europe . One of these was the Neapolitan ,
Dr Giuseppe Mauro , whom Anglesey
In doing so he described his distinguished patient
and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he
persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever
found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a
and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and
master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice .
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered
# being cured . '
gentle and charming character , even-tempered
despair of ever being cured . '
with a gentle and charming character ,
patient and persevering , ' but he appears to
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered
advice . In doing so he described his distinguished
that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man
master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for
patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann
even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated ,
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered
patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann
that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man
# persevering , ' but he appears to despair of
advice . In doing so he described his distinguished
and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and
ever being cured . '
master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for
with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered
In doing so he described his distinguished patient
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered
easily irritated , patient and persevering ,
' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . '
Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and
and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found
master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice .
charming character , even-tempered and sedate , not
described his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He
man with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered
' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . '
and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and persevering ,
Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he
told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at
character , even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient and
near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he described his
found Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master at Ko"then ,
distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he
persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . '
described his distinguished patient and his symptoms . He told
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master
at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so he
sedate , not easily irritated , patient and persevering , ' but he
with a gentle and charming character , even-tempered and
appears to despair of ever being cured . '
Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic man
at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master
so he described his distinguished patient and his
irritated , patient and persevering , ' but he appears
to despair of ever being cured . '
character , even-tempered and sedate , not easily
symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey
a strong , energetic man with a gentle and charming
he described his distinguished patient and his symptoms .
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered master
cured . '
energetic man with a gentle and charming character ,
at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice . In doing so
and persevering , ' but he appears to despair of ever being
even-tempered and sedate , not easily irritated , patient
He told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a strong ,
cured . '
irritated , patient and persevering , ' but
he appears to despair of ever being
advice . In doing so he described his distinguished
patient and his symptoms . He told Hahnemann
even-tempered and sedate , not easily
master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered
man with a gentle and charming character ,
that he found Anglesey a strong , energetic
charming character , even-tempered and sedate ,
for advice . In doing so he described his
told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered
distinguished patient and his symptoms . He
strong , energetic man with a gentle and
not easily irritated , patient and persevering ,
master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking
' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . '
' but he appears to despair of ever being cured . '
Anglesey a strong , energetic man with a gentle and
Mauro's first action was to write to his revered
not easily irritated , patient and persevering ,
charming character , even-tempered and sedate ,
In doing so he described his distinguished patient and
master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking for advice .
his symptoms . He told Hahnemann that he found
persevering , ' but he appears to despair
revered master at Ko"then , near Leipzig , asking
distinguished patient and his symptoms . He
sedate , not easily irritated , patient and
strong , energetic man with a gentle and
for advice . In doing so he described his
of ever being cured . '
told Hahnemann that he found Anglesey a
Mauro's first action was to write to his
charming character , even-tempered and
and of course with lower tax reliefs and
couples ( probably because of the
many of which were incomplete families
of younger parents with lower earnings ,
was appreciably higher in families with
several children than in those with only ,
incomes between 1954 and 1959 was great-
no family allowances . The rise in net family
est for childless couples , especially older
Nevertheless , average net family income
couples and couples with one child .
children and those with one child , and much smaller
showed increases of 4 to 6 per cent for couples without
index , which has risen only slowly since 1956 , was
households and by 1-2 per cent for younger childless
changes for couples with several children . The quantity
almost unchanged in 1959 for couples with two or more
children , but rose by 3 per cent in the older two-adult
Compared with 1958 , the expenditure index for 1959
As in 1958 , younger couples paid some 12 1/2 per cent
compares the prices paid by different types of household
for whom the index declined from 91 to 88 . Table 27
diet in 1959 .
for the commodities constituting the average household
more per calorie than the national average , and families
with four or more children 19 per cent less . The only
substantial change was in families with three children ,
also shows the corresponding values of an index which
in younger two-adult households to 4.8 per cent below in families with
all households in the sample .
four or more children , compared with +3.6 to -5.4 per cent in 1958
For all foods the range was from 3.6 per cent above the national average
in which the index fell by 1.8 to 97.5 per cent of the average for
and +2.8 to -2.6 per cent in 1957 . As with the price of energy index ,
the only noteworthy change was for households with three children ,
which have been carried out .
are highway payments , clearance payments ( for clearing remains of
5 . Other forms of war damage payment made by the Commission
differing in certain important ways from the ordinary cost of
structures from " total loss " sites ) and church payments . Although
works payments , the sums paid under these heads have the
common feature that they are all payments in respect of works
the answer . Disturbed by vague uneasiness , she
on that point , for she was certain no one
could not have overheard anything they
her fan , in passing ; but she did not wait for
asked idly , tapping the girl's cheek lightly with
had been standing near them .
' Are you enjoying yourself , Olimpia ? ' she
was wondering whether Olimpia had been
watching her talk with Orsini . Surely she
said ? A moment's reflection reassured her
put Vittoria on guard . ' Santa Maria ! These spying
stopping on the way , to point out , with childish pride ,
information , which held no interest for her :
fringe of the party , caught snatches of this
objects of beauty or interest . Vittoria , on the
' ... now this sapphire ...
However , something inimical in the girl's look
eyes ! ' she thought , bitterly . Doria was continually
leisurely fashion his few possessions into a ramshackle and
along . " To her great relief they arrived at the cluster of little houses
where Hubert had been living to find the old man stowing in
said shortly . " Personally I 've no more to say , so I suggest we get
in her quivering flesh . " You 've an answer - of sorts - for everything , " she
incredibly ancient car , surrounded by innumerable friends and relatives .
She was tempted to laugh , but it was as though that barb still stuck
everything had gone over her head . It didn't really
matter what was being said because she was
face pale . Philip , she knew , got on his nerves , but
retorted and in that second , he became the man of
success exerting authority . Sandra watched her father's
Philip bristled . ' It was never our intention
no longer a part of it .
to have one of those carnival affairs , ' he
The thought of Nicholas haunted her , the sense of
of our friends at the ceremony . '
he said , ' I was not talking of a carnival . But I
presume we shall be allowed to have one or two
loss crucifying . Her father's comment roused her as
their share , and there were precious few
self-employed . By the time his monthly salary
reductions in tax save for wives , children ,
drawn between ordinary wage-earners and those
He had long sensed injustice in the distinctions
encumbrances which Cecil had so far avoided .
life-insurances or any of the other normal
arrived , the Inland Revenue had already taken
postponed demanding the tax until her financial year
process could , and often did take several years .
was ended , audited and agreed by the Inspector . The
to claim relief on the most unlikely purchases , but also
provisions of Schedule D taxation which not only allowed her
He read the film star's sorry story and frowned at the
At one point the astute Miss Cheesecake
chase of several mink coats which ,
to a depreciation tax allowance
as plant and machinery . The
that the warm coats were heating
had claimed tax relief on the pur-
it seemed , were necessary to fur-
appliances and therefore susceptible
was reported , she tearfully claimed
ther her career . Alternatively , it
three of which were in her husband's name ,
Royce and a Sussex manor house , all
agreement had been delayed long enough for
Discounting one chinchilla jacket , a Rolls-
by rights should have been reserved for her tax .
Miss Cheesecake to spend all the money which
she now declared herself bankrupt .
Between all the interested parties , the final
and Cecil , with a further six stops
tax relief for a jacket used
had had with the Inland Reve-
The train drew into another station
is a condition of your employment , '
nue in an effort to obtain
solely in the office . ' If the jacket
to go , was left almost alone in the
qualify for relief . '
the Inspector had written , ' it may
coach . He fumed as he recol-
lected the long correspondence he
It was a new briefcase , and as the train jogged along
' It 's not mine . I wasn't sitting there . ' She blinked
the shiny clasp twinkled invitingly at Cecil .
He wondered what it contained . Probably the remains
of someone's lunch or a few secret files .
He smiled at his own joke .
disdainfully at him and stepped out .
when he shook the case there was a rustling thud
five thousand at least . ' He felt in his jacket pocket
his own briefcase key , a suitcase key and a
It was locked . Eager fingers felt bulky contents and
and pulled out a key ring . In succession he tried
of wads of paper . ' Cor ! ' he muttered aloud , ' there 's
device designed to lock typewriters .
bent wire loop into the lock and
There was a click and the
briefcase opened . Cecil thrust an
Cecil searched in his pockets once
pound notes .
paper-clips . After a few seconds
of twisting , he roughly thrust a
more and came up with two
waggled it around vigorously .
groping after wads of five
eager hand inside , his fingers
They closed on a single bundle and , fumbling with
side . ' Old fashioned fivers ! ' he muttered again , and
rested on a wad of stiff white paper printed on one
alone on polite request .
break their promise to pay on rude demand , let
nervous excitement , he pulled it out . His eye
Govr. and Compa. of the Bank of England would never
tried to recall if they were still legal tender . Surely the
bore , in large Baskerville type , the words METROPOLITAN
glowered at his own breach of social morality .
COURSE NO. 3 . He ruffled the sheets irritably and
Cecil frowned in disappointment as he focussed upon the
MONOTECHNIC INSTITUTE ADVANCED ACCOUNTANCY
at all . He was holding a paper booklet , the top sheet of which
printing to find no Govr. , no Compa. , in fact no five pound notes
briefcase at the ticket-collector with the firm
guilt-symbol upon the ticket-collector and then
He climbed the stairs , eager to unload the
intention of playing the dutiful citizen
fumbled for his contract before thrusting the
to emerge carrying his shame unseen , but burning ,
into the night . He reached the barrier and
retrieving lost property .
into the darkness .
stretched out a hand . ' Watch your step there , sir ! Your briefcase
is hanging open . You 'll have someone shoving their hot
little hands inside . Here , I 'll do it . ' The collector pressed the twinkling
Before he could open his mouth , the collector
catch home with a click . Cecil , irretrievably laden with
Sentence Database
both briefcase and conscience , stumbled away
Trunk and Greppes Tannin-free Tea .
they had once obtained as a free gift in exchange
and the polished brass fourteen-pounder shell-case
case into hiding between the do-it-yourself cupboard
the hall as he opened the front door . He nodded irritably
brella stand . ' You 're later than usual , aren't you ? '
His mother tidied her grey hair in the hall-mirror
and , turning his back to her , contrived to slide the brief-
for the labels from half a hundredweight of
' HELLO , CECIL . HAD a busy day ? ' His mother came into
which served respectively as coat cupboard and um-
easy on the immersion heater . ' What is it ,
fuss , mother ! I 'm quite well and no more
tired than usual , and we finished the gin
asked solicitously . ' You do look tired .
Cecil ? Don't you feel well ? ' his mother
in tax-free champagne whilst he had to go
inequity of Miss Cheesecake well-nigh bathing
last week , you know that . '
Go and get yourself a drink . ' ' Don't
Cecil gritted his teeth and glowered at the
Nobody 's tired . Now just you run along
Cecil stepped towards the dining room . ' I 'm
dinner ready . '
and I 'm NOT irritable . ' ' Very well then . ' His
upstairs and wash your hands whilst I get
sure you must be tired , ' his mother insisted .
mother nodded with understanding . ' You 're not tired .
' You 're very irritable , anyway . ' ' I 'm NOT tired
of a mother who had failed to realise that a son
the treads . ' And don't wipe the dirt off on the
climb the stairs , stamping with unnecessary vigour upon
Cecil wriggled irritably under the misplaced management
towel like you did yesterday .
who is nearly bald is no longer a baby . He started to
against the brass umbrella stand . ' Well now ! ' She hurried
towards it and picked it up .
a tinkle and a thud from beside the coat cupboard . Cecil's
mother turned around in time to see the briefcase collapse
you know how she has a good look round everywhere . ' There was
Your Auntie Edie 's coming in for a cup of tea later and
what it 's all about . ' Cecil halted in
you 'd been extravagant . '
What 's all about ? ' he hissed without
irritable . You thought that I 'd think
briefcase . ' So that 's why you are so
' What have we here ? A new briefcase ! So THAT 'S
turning round . She pointed to the
clenched his fists . ' So that 's what
mid-step near the top of the stairs and
after him . ' Mother knows her boy .
the stairs and , snatching the case , ran back
Arnold Olner
' But I 'm NOT irritable ! ' He rushed down
upstairs with it . ' And I 've NOT been
extravagant . ' " Naughty ! ' she called
after layer of illusion to be peeled off and
a buyer of property . No , not even an
In spite of all the transferred maternity
that innocence was colossal . It had layer
infant-in-arms but a new-born babe , a
premature piece of frailty in an oxygen-
tent of utter innocence . The complexity of
she was endowed with by her patients ,
poor Serena was an infant-in-arms as
replaced with sad knowledgeability .
holiday while the whole transaction was
It was a nakedness of nai"vety to be
day , choose one , make an offer , put it in
put through .
of experience . Her first illusion consisted in
clothed leaf by leaf with the disappointment
the belief that all she need do was to go to
an agent , visit half a dozen houses in one
the hands of a lawyer and go away on her
on a small pink terraced cottage , two beds ,
first thing she did was to make an offer
two inter-comm. rec. , mod. k. and b. , sep. W.C.
Fortunately , however , the fashion for Victorian
at last and therefore saved the situation for
the affluent middle-class , who now had plenty
architecture which Mr. John Betjeman had
Serena discovered , and more , but in stages . For the
of lovely-ugly to be coldly elegant in . All this
started several decades before had caught on
small back yard , newly dec. , near shops and tube
red pounds . The lawyer said :
seemed to her the princely sum of six hund-
she could not afford to buy a house at all .
to save the ten percent needed . Or so she
And this in spite of having at last managed
The next thing that Serena discovered was that
thought , being then in possession of what
" Of course you must count about two hundred
tered . I take it you have a mortgage lined
then ? "
maybe less , depending on the price of the
up , then , Mrs. - er - Buttery ? " " Not yet ,
sure . " " Er , yes . You have some securities ,
for legal charges and stamp duties ,
house , and whether it has been regis-
but the bank would give me a loan , I 'm
and yellow sleepy dust in the corners of his pale
with the finger-nail of the opposite hand .
tried to make up for it by constantly paring them
suit , cigarette ash down the front , an ashen face
His aspect was as dusty as his office , with scurf
grey eyes . His finger-nails were dirty , though he
from dusty hair on the dusty shoulders of his black
they 're not - money-lenders ? " " Mrs. - er - Buttery ,
dazzled and gave a long raucous cough . " Only
cigarettes worth smoking , these . Most unhealthy , English
this property ... . " " But , they 're safe , are they ? I mean ,
" Yes , well ... . " He judged that she had been sufficiently
all mortgage companies are money-lenders .
some people who might , I say might , let you have a mortgage on
ones . Well , now , let me see . I think I can put you onto
them . The little man from the Inter-Insular
Buttery . I think , however , that you might have
property you intend to purchase . " She revised
saw to that .
( British Archipelago ) Insurance Company soon
" I know what you mean . You may trust me , Mrs.
That 's rather the point , isn't it ? " " No , but I mean - "
to revise your ideas about - er - the type of
" you must be living in the nineteenth century . "
reasons , or you might leave him . " " But how
or building societies , for that matter , will
" Oh , but it 's a very general rule , Mrs. Buttery ,
might stop work to have - well , for all sorts of
at all . It 's a rule of I.I.I. You see , you
you 'll find that no insurance companies ,
utterly extraordinary , " said Serena angrily ,
allow for the wife's earnings .
I 'm afraid we can't take yours into account
difficult with self-employed persons , carry two .
that would come to ... three , carry seven , six
" Clacton's . " " Well , I 'm damned . " " Now , let me see ,
you say your husband earns about ... yes ,
nines are fifty four - of course we 'd have to
Our lawyers - " " Who are your lawyers ? "
have some sort of proof , you know , it 's very
Yes . I 'm afraid we couldn't raise this loan to more
before the green belt , lovely and modern , you know .
Grimstead for three thousand , that 's where I live , just
house built earlier than 1918 . "
could get quite a nice little semi-detached house in
I forgot to tell you , we don't usually lend any
than three thousand three fifty at the most . Now you
and some in West Hampstead for four two fifty ,
had gone , " we can get three thousand three fifty ,
a bit . I 'm sure you could raise the rest from
and write them later . I 've got a bit owing too .
perhaps a little more if we can cheat your earnings
Now , I saw some flats in Hendon for four thou ,
" You see , " she propounded to Rupert after her last patient
our own bathroom .
one of your publishers , get two books commissioned
two beds , two reception , k. and b. , just think ,
Much more spacious than that poky little cottage ,
reception room was too small when divided
and too big when not .
which wasn't a bit practical really , the
Vence is a sober spot , half way between small
tree-heavy square you can sit in the autumn
sip pastis and read the local newspapers .
sunshine , still burning like a half-cooled iron ,
town and village , pigeon grey , sly with arches , and
linked by a whispering plot of fountains . In the main
had firmly closed the door in our noses .
hunting for furnished rooms , and had given up , when an
is a smart but modest bar called Pierre's Bar . For one
elderly lady , the owner of a residence called the Poet's Nest ,
of our arrival it was throwing huge over-ripe verbal
tomatoes at General de Gaulle . One side of this square
day , with the help of the Syndicat d'Initiative , we had been
One called La Patriote is Communist , and at the time
she decided Pierre would solve our problems . This
yellow as lemon peel , wrestling with some gnawing rat
a good address . ' Now , after a woman's radar look ,
accumulation of money .
was true , Pierre was a true Provenc*?6al , thin and
of an illness , man of all trades , married to a commanding
lady who loved small talk and the discreet
' It is a pity , ' said Mart , ' because it would have been
month . ' Yes , ' we said immediately , even before viewing .
elderly , well-off , artistic , who , you felt , had made a hard
We went in . There were a few people in the bar ,
Pierre , ' and all mod cons . ' The price was 16,000 francs a
bargain for giving up . ' I have furnished rooms , ' said
We were shown around by Pierre .
We were woken up twice about dawn by a soft
first night's sleeping was like a long convalescence .
The flat was on the third floor ; two rooms ; soft Provenc*?
6al view ; good intimate furnishing and colour ; running
hot water from Butagas installation for washing-up ,
eruption of turtle-doves .
basin and bidet ; own private , modern lavatory . The
shame .
curling white breath of the mountains . The land looked
' turtledove ' . Pierre Turtledove . When we woke up properly it
looked out of the windows at the weeping trees and the
This was strange , even magic , because the owner's
name was Pierre Tortorolo which , in Nicoison Italian means
like a beaten woman and the turtle-doves cried her
was raining , an even more hopeless rain than London , and we
We had a morning at Pierre's . He talked about people .
immolated on a nearby roof top , the other pair copulating .
The Lover of Lady Chatterly .
Four of them were flattened on the window sills , two
four years . During this period he wrote a book ,
There they were , in fact , below us , eight of them .
Marc Chagall used to live here and an Englishman named
Lawrence . He was here , near the railway station , three or
sat in the square reading the Patriote .
sun came out ; Mart went shopping ; I
him , he was one of the crowd . The
reading . Lawrence died in this very place .
No , he hadn't read it ; Madame did all the
again . No , he couldn't really remember
He used to come to Pierre's Bar again and
There was a front-page rear-attack on de
ingenious , but mad film director of the
Raphael . All the murders were well documented
Thirties .
the Mediterranean between Corsica and St
Gaulle , and the rest of the paper was given up
to murders , apart for an outcry against a
and had the air of being written by an
proposal to drop radio-active material into
Monsieur H , for instance , had been clubbed and
Then again , Monsieur V , owing to family
before the father-in-law telephoned the police .
father-in-law , after muddling up some sheep
They mostly occurred in lonely farm-houses .
while the worse for drink . The family
troubles , had written to the local
group then sat down for a late lunch
throttled to death by his wife , children and
informing them that he was on the point
paper and the superintendent of police ,
which again left his household goods
that the walls were porous and the
a few minutes later from a nearby village ,
actually reported in the next issue ) returned
apologising for the trouble , but explaining
surrounded by firemen and other officials ,
gas had escaped . General relief was
but there was no Monsieur V. He telephoned
Monsieur V's house was immediately
expressed , but Monsieur V ( this was
home and shot himself , leaving a note
an elderly farm labourer out for a shoot
same afternoon .
ended well , reported the paper , since the
labourer was able to return to work the
Some grim comic relief was provided by
labourer in the face . All , however ,
was after this very bird and shot the farm-
pellets were easily removed and the
a blackbird . Unfortunately a sporting taxi-driver
who hid himself in a bush and imitated
the hoe . Rising from the flecked sea are
valley with a sea of vines and olives
and beaches of earth pricked to blood by
towns , grey , rose-headed mariners clinging
islands tapering to shipwrecked castles and
You can free-wheel down a quarter of the
like limpets to the rock .
We travelled down to Nice on the Lambretta .
way . In the middle of the journey is a
a muffled bell taps the sky . Here we
heat and cold like the hands of
early smells , the dark bosoms of
friends or strangers , and a flurry of
beech and the thin pine fingers
kissed by the sun .
Cagnes , but between are pockets of
stopped . Down below is the village of
stopped , as in fine weather we always
There is a curd of morning smoke and
to the old sleeping port . This , and
prostitutes , edging past grubby grandeur
sea , blue as a new school exercise
vulgar , out of time , bitter-sweet with
book . The same old Nice , creamy ,
my tongue like spray .
the ghosts of dead monarchs and brilliant
Then here was Nice , and the old holiday
could catch the taste of dead dreams on
Paris , were my ruined pavilions , and I
disaster .
in our eyes . The sea boiled with waves ,
over the Promenade des Anglais . A huge
have a swim . Amazing bedlam rocked
crowd had collected . There were firemen
Negresco , and went to the beach to
they galloped to the walls and spumed
We parked the Lambretta opposite the
eyes of the spectators were hard with
and policemen and ambulances , and the
Mediterranean people to whom nothing
love house , the mad grandmother or the
They all had that neat look of
could ever happen , the chosen sane , the
the bell would ring for them - the gilded
bloody child at the crossroads .
the municipality . Yet , at any time now ,
uncuckolded , unrobbed , sheltered from
disease and accident by doctors , God and
The cool evening perfumes stood
crowd and drove back to Vence .
It was growing cold . We left the
I had to explain the low , sharp and
sweet signals in the air . When we
organs were impaired years ago ) , and
Mart is unable to smell ( her sense
London sickness ( a sense of guilt ,
got back home we felt exhausted .
mingled with the memory of sandwiches
beckoning at the corners of the roads .
opposite Pierre's , I read about the Nice
a woman's . It belonged to a Madame
sun . The next morning , in the square
neighbourhood , and it transpired that
Mart had been right , the body had been
arrangement with the dead lady's sister
N. Enquiries had been made in the
We went straight to bed and slept until
the turtle-doves drummed up the
Madame N's husband had made an
beach catastrophe in the Patriote .
reported her to the police , and then jumped
The sister , able to swim , had returned
off a cliff near Monte Carlo .
to her brother-in-law ( with whom
to the shore , but instead of returning
confessed everything . Her fiance*?2
went to her fiance*?2's house and
she had an illicit relationship ) , she
hair had just been done . She looked
and so were her fashionable shoes . Her
more than ever like a pink and gold
down to visit my young friend Philip
to leave at eleven , but she arrived
at his school in the country , we were
life .
Renoir girl who expects everything from
The day I promised to take Catherine
at nine . Her blue dress was new ,
thing from food to music .
tea , and talked mainly about Philip , who ,
she felt small flats were altogether more
flat with a devotion which said that
Catherine lives in a white house
being 15 , has pure stern tastes in every-
of the river . She helped me clean up my
overlooking the sweeping brown tides
romantic than large houses . We drank
to read on the train . Catherine is 13 .
to let nothing get between her and
ficult , but she said , ' Philip reads them ,
frowning face as she turned the
Catherine looked at the books lying
newspapers and watched her pretty
I suggested she might find them dif-
pages of Babel , for she was determined
around his room , and asked if she
might borrow the stories of Isaac Babel
doesn't he ? ' During the journey I read
vilised and expensive , the two children
went to the pictures . Philip allowed
towards each other as they talked . In
the pictures just for the fun of it was
Catherine's left hand she carried the
I followed , seeing how the sun gilded
# it to be seen that he thought going to
stories of Isaac Babel . After lunch we
walked together across green fields , and
their bright friendly heads turned
At the school , which is charming , ci-
chamber ; and Philip and I waited with
Catherine in the dark until she had stopped
minals in New York . His goodness , how-
evening .
ever , was not enough to prevent one
serious of the two films that were
For his sake we chose the more
of them from being sent to the gas
about a good priest who helped cri-
showing in the little town . It was
crying and could face the light of a golden
by her suffering arm , he said bitterly :
rine stared at him , incredulous . Philip
even when its demonstrated to them . '
' Yes , why are you crying , he had to be
who had red eyes . Grasping Catherine
punished for his crime , didn't he ? ' Cathe-
At the entrance of the cinema the
doorman was lying in wait for anyone
rescued her by saying with disdain :
' Some people don't know right from wrong
to the next red-eyed emerger from the
of the cruelty of the world . Finally Catherine
about it . ' And Philip said : ' But we 've got
you see ? '
dark ; and we went on together to
the station , the children silent because
said , her eyes wet again : ' I think its all
if we don't it 'll just go on and on , don't
absolutely beastly , and I can't bear to think
to think about it , don't you see , because
The doorman turned his attention
beside # Catherine . She had the stories open
In the train going back to London I sat
I wish I went to that school . Did you notice
that girl who said hullo to him in the garden ?
in front of her , but she said : ' Philip 's awfully lucky .
assuredness " Bella Bella Marie " ( Parlophone ) , a lively song that changes tempo mid-way .
I don't think he will storm the charts with this one , but it 's a good start .
CHRIS CHARLES , 39 , who lives in Stockton-on-Tees , is an accountant .
Become a success with a disc and hey presto ! You 're a star ... . Rolly sings with
Tolch , as he is known in Tin Pan Alley , likes songs with a month in the title . He wrote
" My September Love , " the big David Whitfield hit of 1956 .
He is also a director of a couple of garages . And he finds time as well to be a lyric
writer . He writes with Tolchard Evans , composer of " Lady of Spain " and other big hits .
The numbers include " Scotland the Brave , " " Men of Harlech , "
Fay Compton stars in " No Hiding Place " (I T V , 9.35 p.m. ) .
She plays the possessive mother of a man whose hobby revolves
round a doll's house .
THREE people will be hypnotised in tonight's " Lifeline "
( B B C , 10.15 ) .
" McNamara's Band , " " Greensleeves " and " English Rose . "
of Rhodesia and Nyasaland ( 10.30 p.m. ) .
They will be asked to comment on the design of everyday articles
playwright Arnold Wesker . " Instead , Muggeridge's appointment
such as a chair and a motor-car . The idea is to see what happens when
will be with Sir Roy Welensky the Premier of the Federation
parts of the mind not normally available without hypnosis are used .
I T V have postponed Malcolm Muggeridge's " Appointment with
success last night in I T V's " Private Potter , " his
man could only be regarded as a machine .
date . " ACTOR Tom Courtenay was an outstanding
the switch because of the topicality of African
essay on soldiering which stated that a fighting
Say Granada T V , the producers : " We decided to make
first big T V part . The play was a brilliantly-written
affairs . The Wesker interview will be seen at a later
craggy face , and obstinate , baffled eyes . They stripped
claimed he had seen a vision of God - only the padre and his
Potter screamed during an action , and was arrested . He
him of his ugly battle-dress , to leave him for
vision .
what he was - Potter , a frightened boy who had a
C O believed him . Courtenay played the part with a gawky ,
Northern defiance . The cameras played continuously on his
to the European Common Market .
scene , ranging from pubs , the Eton wall game ,
Dennis Brogan , Shelagh Delaney , and Alan Sillitoe .
The film replaced " What 's My Line ? " and " Be My
British personalities . Among them - Professor
The film covered a wide aspect of the British
Guest " programmes because of an electricians'
of an American T V reporter , Eric Sevareid , and
strike . It showed Britain today through the eyes
Britain was slipping behind ... .
to make the strongest criticisms . He said
Shelagh Delaney and Alan Sillitoe attacked
that in the race of the modern nations ,
education . It was left to reporter Sevareid
other chums sniffing the wind and
offering to drop by for a chat .
arrived two hours earlier by appointment
to talk to the author of Borstal Boy and
The Hostage about his new work , if any ,
and who is now being pluckily convivial
has rung a couple of times , calls from
to fight off the frustration . The telephone
ALSO present is a London journalist who
the Synoptics can be reasonably solved by paying due regard to the time and
plan and to the different public for which , or against which , the author wrote .
The third article excluded any allegorical interpretation of the Gospel .
The second said that the problems which arise from the comparisons with
Fourth Gospel by explanations based on assumed textual dislocations . The
There is a whole group of theories which attempt to explain the problems of the
could of the chaos by placing the fragments , or sheets , or pages , in order .
present state of the Gospel is the result of an accident-prone history . The
accidentally damaged . An editor , who was not the author , made what he
original was written on a roll , or codex , which fell into disorder or was
showing that such changes are part of a
how this enlargement was effected nor has he
The one real weakness of the Commentator's
this is possible it is necessary to examine the
he has not , until now , been able to exhibit exactly
been able to explain the textual movements by
case is that , in common with all his colleagues ,
text of the Gospel .
simple and coherent plan . To understand how
wording . It is not possible to establish any one
THE Fourth Gospel was almost certainly
Gospel represents the work of generations of
scholars who have compared the many manu-
written in Greek . A modern text of the
which is most likely to have been the original
text with absolute precision .
scripts of John and worked out the version
paragraphos markings were omitted . C. H. Roberts is of
The bar was the commonest marking , but others
some markings would be used , although which , it is
impossible to say .
were also used . Dots sometimes served in place of the
bar , and there are cases where spacing is used as
the opinion that in the original of the Fourth Gospel
it is now used to mark a paragraph ending . Frequently
the original of the Gospel would be unmarked . The
Professor E. G. Turner is inclined to take the view that
about one third of a page of Souter's print .
manuscripts . A common size of column would hold
columns . This is the invariable practice of ancient
whether paragraphed or not , would be laid out in
original of the Gospel , whether written on a roll or codex ,
a simple and serviceable book . It was robust - the number
an easy form of book in which to find a
reference .
The edge of this sheet was attached to a wooden dowel
this - and it was easily stored . It had two disadvantages . It
and the sheet wound round this central pin . The roll made
which have survived the centuries is ample evidence of
was generally a single-sided form of book , and it was not
overwhelmed Herculaneum and Pompeii in A.D. 79 , his
the elder Pliny tells of the use of papyrus in roll-making .
The other form of book was the codex . In this the
they are in modern books .
sheets were bound together down one edge much as
information is contemporaneous with the New Testament .
ecclesiastical circles . In his Natural History , 13 . 11-12 ,
As Pliny was killed in the eruption of Vesuvius which
This last objection might have had some weight in
the roll , a sheet could easily be glued on .
whether or not a particular text was written on
might be bulky . It is sometimes possible to tell
Against these advantages the codex was fragile and
writing , but any papyrus left unused at the
a roll or a codex . Rolls were prepared for
end could be cut off . If the text was longer than
The codex form was not so accommodating . Even
while one whole side of his roll was unused .
over the binding , or the whole codex rebound .
The verso of the roll was blank , and one
in the case of the single-sheet quire , an extra
sending out his Gospel lacking the ending ,
cannot think of an author , Mark for example ,
sheet glued on might have to be gummed on
in it the reservoir ... and I made both the
construction in lines 9 , 23-25 of the Moabite Stone ,
which read : And I built Baal-meon and made
A natural transition from gardens and
reservoirs for water inside the town .
the rock . King Mesha of Moab boasts of their
supply . The pools are probably natural springs
enlarged to become reservoirs or cisterns in
orchards to the vital question of water
the Shmah , loves the Lord God with
is the Shamir and such a man fulfils
prayer says : " What am I ? A worm " , he
all his heart , and with all his soul and
word " SHAMIR " means guarded or preser-
ved . Therefore , the real man , who
with all his might and studies the
regards himself as insignificant , as the
word of God .
The word Shamir was used as a
personal name ( Git. 68a ) . The Hebrew
us earthly creatures to build an Altar
This man is the worm , the creature that
to mould our character , to melt our
Such a Shamir possesses the real acid
self against all the irrelevant pleasures .
for God to come nearer to God .
a man is the Shamir that guards him-
cuts and polishes Altar-Stones . Such
heart of stone . This Shamir helps
facts . And these creatures existed from the
beginning . It is " the stone , which the builders
of the corner " . ( Ps. 118 , 22 . ) And the stone shall
tell !
The action of the Shamir writes books and their
diamond that incises the hardest rock , the hardest
books are readable . This Shamir is indeed a rare
refused , but it is to become the head-stone
crushing our soul " ( see Hab. 2 , 10-11 ) . And it is
Lord , as the waters cover the sea . " ( Hab. 2 , 14 . )
" For the stone shall cry out of the wall " , like
filled with the knowledge of the Glory of the
creak in answer " " if the roof of our security is
through the Shamir : " That the earth shall be
Baalam's ass , " and the purlin of timber shall
the Light which can be read in every
They make us the Altar for God to emit
a deep impression on our feelings and senses .
of life , and all facts are " one " . We have all
most important creature , that was created on
Sabbath , real peace to the whole world .
language . The Shamir is the " seventh " and
which is written on two plates , the hard facts
the eve of the Sabbath , to bring the
The Shamir's daily life writes the Decalogue ,
come across human Shamirs and they leave
diligently unto my commandments , which I command
shall come to pass , if 1ye shall 1hearken
your soul . " This may seem very good , but there
is something deficient .
serve Him with all your heart and with all
you this day , to love the Lord your God , and to
Then the whole earth will be His Altar . " And it
Lord God with all their visionary power ,
summons of destiny , to solve the economic
the work will have to be done by each
mind together we cannot solve the further
Jochai ( Tanis 6a ) " if Israel does not fulfil
the wish of the Lord , failing to serve the
Under such conditions without putting your
problems . Hence says Rabbi Simeon ben
individual " .
gratify selfish aims , then each man will gather-in
for himself only , instead of all to help to gather your
and visionary power is not united , man will remain in his heart
They will not work in union . If physical power , spiritual power
corn , your wine and your oil .
selfish and think only of one's personal advantage to
our duty ) . Of course the individual will
freedom from fear , fear of starvation in the
the yourself is thy greatest enemy , the self-
seeking self .
Freedom from want cannot be fulfilled nor
coming for the people in need . They will
aside , and serve other gods , and worship them " ,
think of the animals first ( which is of course
eat and be full but : " Take heed to yourself ,
that your heart be not deceived , and 1ye turn
midst of plenty . Help will not be easily forth-
good land which the Lord 1giveth you . "
two masters , and you worship self-interest , isolating
" And then the Lord's wrath be kindled against you , and he
shut up the heavens , that there is no rain , and that the land
yourself , under such conditions the goods are your gods .
And you serve Mammon and God . And you cannot serve
yield not her fruit and lest 1ye perish quickly from off the
adds and in your soul , searching your soul .
For without the vision to serve the Lord your God with all
up these my words in your heart and in your soul . " The text
the problem of life cannot be solved . " Therefore shall 1ye lay
your heart and with all your soul and with all your might
in the first part of the Shmah , we have first " and
to the children any more diligently and the
shall teach them to your children . " And as we have go-
they may be as frontlets between your eyes . " First to
them without visionary power .
to bind them for a sign upon your hand , that
ne through the mill , we need not teach them
children will grasp now what will befall
bind them to have the vision and then " And 1ye
And the sequence in the text is different than
And they are ( 1 ) Matzo ; ( 2 ) Bitter Herbs ; ( 3 ) Salt-water and
just as there is a message sealed in the four emblems which
back .
And the tsitsits had a message sealed inside the knots
Charauses ( a kind of fruit mixture in likeness of the
appearance of mortar ) ; and ( 4 ) an attitude to lean
are used on Passover , to depict the " time of our freedom " .
symbolises the bitterness that is hurled against us .
( 1 ) Matzos is deficient bread , ( LECHEM ANJO in Hebrew ) ,
and that God dwells within us .
We eat it . We accept it , to show we have self-control
to learn . Education is always the most important task .
so are we deficient without spiritual knowledge , and to
Education gives : Freedom of Speech . ( 2 ) Bitter Herbs
cure our mental incapacity we should be willing
facts " together and explains them , represents the Oral
the salt-water at the Seder-Table represents the Covenant of the Torah
Self-control gives us : Freedom to worship God . ( 3 ) Salt Water and Charauses :
ourselves and have peace with one-another . And the sweet
Mortar ( the CHARAUSES in Hebrew ) that binds all the " hard-
( MELACH BRITH ELOHECHO in Hebrew , Salt is the covenant of 1thy God ,
Tradition .
Levit. 2 , 13 . ) Salt preserves and we should have this salt in
11 ) . That gives us freedom from want .
meek : " But the meek shall inherit the earth ; and shall
Living the life of the Torah ( " dipping-in " ) makes us
delight themselves in the abundance of Peace " ( Psalm 37 ,
We dip into both , at the Seder . And we want to understand
more of the Torah and the Oral Tradition , our inheritance .
( This is the PARDUS . ) Matzo represents
Derush ; ( 4 ) Leaning-back represents Saud .
how to live and accept all the bitterness
and the sweet Mortar in which we dip-in represents
is called : The Feast of Matzos . The
principle and this gives us " a wink " ( Remez )
represents Remez ; ( 3 ) Dipping-in represents
that is hurled against us . The Salt-water
the literal meaning of Pesach which
( 1 ) Matzo represents Peshat ; ( 2 ) Moraur
Bitter-Herbs represent the spiritual
the richness of the Law and that we should
freedoms " which are Divine . There are four ways of
burdens of Egypt . ( 2 ) I will rid you of their bondage .
redemption : ( 1 ) I will bring you out from under the
And we answer , that the Lord our God gave us " four freedoms "
without which Society cannot make progress . And we drink
" four cups " to thank the Lord our God for the " four
burdens of Egypt : How was it that Israel was
Because , they kept the Passover and they were
people . ( 1 ) I will bring you out from under the
( 3 ) I will redeem you . ( 4 ) I will take you to me for a
was known even to Abraham and Lot .
brought out from under the burdens of Egypt ?
eating Matzos in Egypt and the " Feast of Matzos "
derived little comfort from it .
James had grown up in Presbyterian Scotland ,
The new century opened with James 1 ascending
Book was issued in 1604 but the Puritans
the throne . He was quite prepared to be
spoiled that . The Puritans had high hopes , for
tolerant towards Rome though the Gunpowder Plot
but those hopes were dashed . True , a new Prayer
remained . Other changes in the Book were equally
They objected to the word Confirmation . So the phrase
' or the laying on of hands upon children baptized and
They objected to the word Absolution . So the phrase ' or
the remission of sins ' was added . But Absolution remained .
added to the Catechism .
minor except for the new section on the Sacraments
to the Catechism following ' were added . But Confirmation
able to render an account of their faith according
This indicated how ephemeral in the Church had
verily and indeed taken and received by the
( which was never actually authorized ! ) .
been the mood which produced the Black Rubric , for
himself immortal by becoming associated with
it says that ' the Body and Blood of Christ , which are
faithful in the Lord's Supper . ' It could hardly be more
a Bible translation - the Authorized Version
definite . It was at this time , too , that King James made
a deliberate return to the Book of 1549 and
In that year Shakespeare had just turned
just learning to read . James was followed by
before . Bacon was at work and Milton was
important Prayer Books in the Anglican
Charles , in whose reign came the Scottish
became the foster mother of some of the most
Prayer Book in 1637 . Significantly this made
forty and had written Hamlet two years
Communion .
first public acts was a hard-hitting battle with
mutual . But Laud was no Romanizer . One of his
the Jesuit , Fisher . But anyone who was friendly
was necessarily a menace .
now so much nobler a figure than former historians
led us to believe . Laud was enthusiastically hated
with James and Charles , the Puritans argued ,
by Calvinists and Puritans , and the sentiment was
Forever associated with Charles is Archbishop Laud ,
Laud made a positive approach . He set out to increase
and so was the office of a bishop . Altars should be
table which was handy for the most improbable uses .
altars and not any broken down , transportable
a sense of reverence . The Prayer Book was to be respected
Or when he found cock-fighting going on in church ?
to face their fears , to see through them and come out on the
by laughing at what are very real fears . As adults , we know
but to a child they are very real . Not that I am suggesting
that children should be molly-coddled - they must be made
other side as victors .
Even worse is to laugh . Tremendous damage may be done to a child
that their fears are groundless , indeed to us they appear laughable ,
it together until the child can see how
situation is frightening , and then to face
unnecessary its fears were .
To ridicule them only pushes them farther
reaped at forty or fifty . Far better to
agree with a child that a particular
the harvest of which may still be being
into themselves , so that they become
unable to speak about it to anybody and
the seeds of any amount of trouble are sown ,
to some extent against it . To keep a child
of twelve or thirteen under the
Because situations which may contain
it is a good idea to condition a child
all the elements of fear can arise suddenly ,
later chapter there are some situations
which occur less frequently than
is unwise . As I shall suggest in a
impression that nothing nasty ever
happens is not merely dishonest , it
frightening possibilities and yet by facing
finally defeat us . More than that , that God
In Gethsemane He prayed that the cup
lives and that the nearer we get to Him ,
them and knowing God is with us and
the way to face life . To see all the latent
that , with Him , there is nothing that can
the stronger we become .
has something important to do with our
should pass from Him . Jesus shows us
do for the world Using my hand .
Because of the plan That God , Who
my hand ; That my hand is big Big ,
... Today A wonderful thought In the
dwells in my hand , Knows this
Was this : That a secret plan Is hid in
dawn was given ... And the thought
secret plan , Of the things He will
Toyohiko Kagawa . Loving Saviour , who experienced
seen to be allies and not enemies and that ,
nature knows better than we do , what it is to
we are with Thee .
come what may , we are never alone when
be really afraid , help us to know that when
we face life boldly , many of the shadows are
all human emotion , and whose sensitive
only a disturbed tossing and turning
which causes them to wake feeling worse
conditions , work themselves to a standstill .
To others , the long hours of the night bring
than when they went to bed . We may begin
the mind . Very few people , under normal
to understand this a little better when we
realize that tiredness itself is largely in
journey which , an hour before , she would
The mind tires first and conveys the impression
a mother has news late at night that her
child is in danger . She will undertake a
of tiredness to the body . This can be proved by
have declared impossible .
body who feels thoroughly tired . Suppose
noting the effect of a new stimulus on some-
bring on an almost immediate feeling of
tiredness - such as when your wife mentions
veritable surge of energy . Many a girl who
the washing-up - while others , if they
refer to something you like doing , bring a
up with no apparent tiredness at all when
is ' too tired to help mum ' will later jump
her boy friend calls and go for a long walk .
Even more simply , test your own reactions
to different situations . There are some which
if the cause of our pain is too deep seated ,
Any mental confusion can cause this and
the best way is probably to seek advice .
a burden to their families and their friends .
so we are unable to cure our own minds ,
involving careful and patient treatment .
As we are unable to cure our own bodies
They drag themselves around and can become
if the trouble is a complicated one
inability to deal with life , especially under
and is in fact no differently regarded than
the diverse pattern which is the twentieth
of the mind is no longer feared or shunned ,
One of the greatest steps forward that has been
great deal of tiredness which comes from
no major complication but results from an
century .
physical illness . There is , nevertheless , a
made this century is the way in which illness
In the days when most people were born ,
months , even a Prime Minister could go to
be happening at the other end of England ,
from America weeks , from the Far East ,
sleep in blissful ignorance of what might
the village , it was not difficult for anybody
held a high and responsible office lived in
When news from the Continent took days ,
far greater simplicity than their successors .
to live a day at a time . Even those who
lived and died within the boundaries of
that it taxes the mind . Two hundred
thirty even sixty miles from his
years ago , men lived and worked
In other ways , too , life for the ordinary
work . The only connexion is the
piece . Now a man may live twenty ,
individual has become so complex
travel day by day .
in one place , their lives were of one
pipeline of the railway on which they
In many cases , their homes know little of
their place of work and their associates at
are possibly like in the surroundings of their
a ' double ' life without ever deliberately
of what is going on . It is easier to live life in
compartments but over the years it builds up ,
homes . It is easy , desperately easy , to lead
the office or works wonder what they
and to do so inevitably builds up tensions which
need to be handled correctly .
planning to do so or in fact being conscious
as fully as possible , without having our energy sapped by un-
We have a saying ' My head will never save my feet ' . Time
necessary weariness . ( a ) Order makes for a decrease in tiredness .
Can we then frame some ' rules ' which may enable us to live life
upstairs or down to the shops .
after time we forget something and have to go back
write out all the necessary jobs waiting to
The business man would find that he reached
rather than getting from one thing to the next .
be done and then work quietly through them ,
thing else . If we would only sit down and
The housewife would find life far less tiring
the end of the day with far less strain if
if she made a list , followed a routine of work
we would find life considerably less exhausting
aimlessly along is more wearying than any-
he was a little more systematic . To drift
I am more than conscious of this . How anybody
out for forty years I find difficult to understand .
commerce may be kept going - though if ever
of ' staggered ' hours it may do an immense
it becomes possible to work out a system
amount of good over and above relieving
the pressure on over-crowded trains .
can go through the same routine day in and day
A lot of it is inevitable so that industry and
ago to hear of a school who tried a six-
and I was interested some little while
for this . I know how much of a drag it can be
hardly like to add further to the dullness
in a predetermined groove , I would
which it engenders . But I am not arguing
day timetable .
As it is , with so much of our life already
to five of the timetable , the following
knowing exactly what the subject
started day one again and so on .
By this means they avoided each
Monday was day six and Tuesday
3 p.m. .
They only worked , of course , a five-
week being the same with a pupil
Monday to Friday were days one
day week so that in the first week
would be on Friday afternoon at
sympathy with the young wife
day of the timetable it was - but
To have order does not mean getting
It was a little complicated to work ,
and kept everybody on their toes .
of course , and there had to be a big
who does not always want to do
it added immensely to the interest
notice in the entrance saying which
into a dull routine . I have great
the washing on a Monday .
do , note the order in which they can most conveniently be
the early closing day ) .
- you must , for example , do your shopping on the morning of
I would not want to either , but if she wants to get through
sit down quietly and make a list of everything she has got to
done ( or must be done because of other predetermined factors
the day without becoming exhausted , she will be well advised to
thing at a time . A list or a plan enables us to
matter on hand .
of mind ensues . ( b ) Concentrate on one
put all our energies into the particular
She will , in fact , be surprised at what peace
too , are necessary , but a careful examination
elsewhere .
the comment of Rami bar Rabh is quoted
( Actually , the Mishnah quotes two further proof
of that passage makes it clear that these are
not quoted here because they are not
texts and the Gemara explains why these ,
necessary to prove the point made by
R. Joshua b. Levi . ) Finally , we note that
with the comment given by Samuel .
R. Joshua b. Levi . The proof text for the
reading of the Book of Esther is quoted
The sugya is built around the saying of
we have a good illustration of how a
already in the hands of the Redactors .
sugya has been fashioned from material
From the above it follows that here , once again ,
because the Mishnah deals with the
( This is probably to be understood as a well-
Levi's thesis ! ) The proof text of greeting by
the divine Name is taken from the Mishnah .
actual practice of greeting by the divine
texts to support the thesis of R. Joshua b. Levi .
There is no reference to the Mishnah here
known comment on the verse ; quoted by
by the Gemara in support of R. Joshua b.
Name and the Gemara here quotes the
Samuel in support of his thesis and quoted
need for the text of the angel are quoted
quoted in the discussion on the Mishnah .
The question and answer with regard to the
answer or that our sugya is quoting from
four texts quoted in the Mishnah .
quoting a well-known question and
here in the same words in which they are
This can either mean that both sugyas are
the longer sugya which deals with all
expression appears to have been framed in
Or it is possible that our sugya contains the
accord but there was no approval of his action
original question and answer and this is quoted
response to the particular point at issue here ,
in Heaven ' in both sugyoth . Such an
use of the expression : ' Boaz did it of his own
in the decision of the human court . )
in the other sugya . ( This can be supported by the
whether the Heavenly Court concurred
to the discussion but because it was
invariably quoted whenever the verse
part of the verse .
is then quoted and the interpretation of the
latter part of the verse by Rami bar Rabh
is added , not because this is at all relevant
become so well known that it was
The proof text of bringing the tithe to the Temple
a familiar interpretation which had
itself was quoted , almost as if it were a
deals with a similar theme .
and the court of Solomon . ' The place of this
on the saying of R. Joshua b. Levi which
' The Holy Spirit manifested itself in three places :
The Gemara continues with a saying of the
Palestinian teacher , R. Eleazar ( 3rd Cent. ) :
the court of Shem , the court of Samuel of Ramah ,
saying here is obvious , it follows naturally
complete with heavy crochet antimacassars , mantel-
One can remember with horror the pictures of the
trends . Crochet today has a variety of uses , and
after the Victorian period that designers realised
has even stepped into the field of high fashion .
piece covers with a fringing of clumsy bobbles and
the potentialities of the craft , and crochet was
revived with designs suitable for contemporary
overcrowded and over-embellished drawing-rooms
numerous other crocheted pieces . It was some years
This could hardly happen without the
herring having some orientation with the
the ground as well as in midwater and
during the swim ( the swim at East Anglia
the herring must continue to migrate over
is always from the north ) .
is caused during the daytime , and that
sea bottom . It means that the crowding
helped and hindered by water flow ,
great fisheries that depend on them :
Thus we can see that herring
the herring spawn along the northern
the Fladen Ground ( where again most big
shots are taken on the edges ) , the Gut ,
instinctive perhaps , and certainly
movements , although primarily
are also closely related to the sea-bed
geography . Geography , too , names the
a deep-water channel to the Dogger where
Their descent stops at the end of the light pressure . But
gravelly soil of these many roughs where the spring-
spawning herring are always found .
their optimum depth ; and this coincides with the suitable
they migrate easterly to the Norwegian side , or westerly , until
in the shallower water the mile wide layers disappear from the
echo-sounders . Bottom crowding comes when they cannot reach
In this 200-fathom trench the herring do not touch the bottom .
miles farther south before they
The joint evidence of echo-sounders
going to travel a hundred
shoals that gather at the Knoll or
other banks are most of them
Drift Effects . At East Anglia , for instance ,
spawn . Some will spawn at the
though somewhat dim picture .
and fishing gear leads to an overall
The details are harder still to see .
accidental . Being contranatant or against
So the arrival of any particular shoal
that find it if enough are travelling , just as
the drift , it probably has a survival value
be accidental . Yet there will always be some
fish at a certain spawning ground may
in ensuring that the fry after hatching
are drifted back into the normal home
only one among thousands who do not .
the robin who gets back exactly may be
But this southerly migration is not
water that is blown offshore must
are well known to bring good
Drift in another form probably
be replaced by an underflow bringing
explains how these migrating herring
different winds . Strong westerlies
and Suffolk beaches .
longshore fishings . The surface
are biased to east or west by the
with it the herring to the Norfolk
course - one breeze will not do it ,
but quite apart from this wind effect
often start off the " local " herring ;
there is an easterly drift special
Easterly winds , on the other hand ,
recent years have shown . A succession
the meeting of water from north and south .
mean no herring along the shore , as
to this rump of coastline , caused by
though a very hard westerly will
of winds is needed for this effect of
works , it may well be that this outset , akin
Knoll . Without an explanation of how it
Herring fishermen call this " the outset " . It
wind you will " set " out - or drift to the east-
ward , the length of half a fleet of nets -
is strongest at spring tides , when without
almost a mile on every tide at the Smith's
been the biggest factor through the ages
in the constancy of this great herring fishery .
to the mouth of a great salmon river , has
( Just how the seine ropes do this is not yet proved ; it may
to overcome its effect , very few fish would be caught .
through or along the bottom . ) But given such a bow
sand ; or even in the case of flat fish , by vibrations
wave of disturbance , it is obvious that without something
be by actual contact , or by sight reaction to the disturbed
aware of the moving footrope before
appear to be the simplest case -
they become ( 1 ) tired , or ( 2 ) more used
Let us consider first what would
The evidence suggest that the fish are
to the disturbance .
that of flat fish on the bottom .
it , swimming at the same speed
it reaches them . They move away before
for an unknown period of time , until
sea-bed , though the footrope in this case
indeed passing over some fish .
the footrope , and presumably out of its
that the wave might be transmitted by the
the seine-net film this usually seemed to
happen just after the fish had risen above
was actually just off the bottom and was
field of disturbance , or bow wave . This suggests
Then they stop swimming and are caught . In
Cover in the fast-moving trawl is considered
reaction to disturbance would be upwards .
would seem to be even more essential ;
And in this film the rise of the fish was
essential to catch round fish whose
fish like haddock , which would hardly
but more films are needed to prove this .
small , a matter of a foot or two . With round
find safety on the bottom , this cover
Actually the seine net has little or no cover .
They also had to cope with the usual flood of rumours , so-
in which she had died , there was nothing on
the victim and inspecting at Waterloo the carriage
adjourned .
the Thursday evening , with blood actually dripping from
his hands . The inquest was opened on February 17 , but ,
man had been seen fleeing from Vauxhall station on
me well meant , some mischievous , including one that a
beyond the jury hearing a formal identification of
which to proceed , and the inquest was
Day by day the police followed up likely and even unlikely
a detailed account of his movements on the 11th . The dead
named Brown .
trails . It was learned that Elizabeth Camp had been lending
woman had been engaged once before - to a barman
money to her relatives , and her brother-in-law was asked for
money . All the while the police were casting about
as a man of about thirty , of medium height , with
This man agreed that his engagement had
and a top-hat .
at Wandsworth . A passenger described this individual
a dark moustache , and wearing a frockcoat
for a man who had been seen leaving the train
tiff , but denied that he owed Miss Camp any
been broken off after one particular
defective , and , despite his claim to infamy ,
description , but the man was not traced .
The porter at the station bore out this
at Wandsworth police-station , claiming to have
committed the murder - but he was mentally
for a man did obligingly present himself
Perhaps the news of their search got around ,
had been nowhere near the 7.42 that evening .
dactyloscopy was only in its beginnings .
a verdict of " wilful murder against some person or
persons unknown . " The most vital clue of the Wedgwood
adjournments , until April 7 , finally had to be content to return
And so the inquest , which had dragged on , with
pestle had been of no assistance . The killer must
have been very thankful that the science of
sinister in the idea of tunnels . The building of
solution emerged . There has always been something
yet so strange were the circumstances that it was
hazardous business .
were many people who believed that to travel
through tunnels would be an equally
The next female fatality occurred eight years later ,
a further seven years before even a ghost of a
them was one of the most dangerous jobs con-
nected with railway construction ; and there
Some thought that the result would be all
by it will be so heartily sick , what with the
wrote an anti-railway industrialist when it was
of a railway will be worse than Ipecacuanha , "
sorts of horrible illnesses brought on by the
confined atmosphere . " The shareholders who travel
proposed to build the Box Tunnel .
foul air , smoke and sulphur , that the mention
said , " the deafening peal of thunder , the sudden
gave others a feeling of danger . A medical journal
immersion in gloom , and the clash of reverberated
darkness .
passengers would be robbed and assaulted in the
of annihilation . " It was also prophesied that
momentary shudder , or idea of destruction , a thrill
The mere thought of subterranean travel
sounds in a confined space combine to produce a
The first was that of Mr Gold , in the famous
in circumstances pointing to murder .
which a body has been found in a tunnel
For all that , as far as England is concerned ,
victim was a woman .
Lefroy case , and by an odd chance the second tragedy
occurred on the same line , although this time the
there have been only two occasions on
the London , Brighton and South Coast Railway ,
she had fallen or been thrown from a train .
no doubt that the woman had been the victim
of foul play , the verdict brought in was that there
24 , 1905 , a Sunday , Sub-Inspector Peacock , of
Though in the minds of most people there was
Brighton line , is approximately one mile long ,
was not sufficient evidence to show whether
and some time before midnight on September
The Merstham Tunnel , on the London-to-
the Feathers Hotel to await identification .
Was it a case of suicide , where some unhappy soul
doctor , the woman , young , small , and rather plump ,
had walked deliberately into the blackness and
Station , and a stretcher party took the body to
into the path of some train ? This hardly seemed
He sent word straight away to near-by Merstham
thrust in her mouth like a gag .
likely , since , when she was examined by a local
was found to have her own silk scarf drawn
It was the battered and broken body of a woman .
almost tight enough to strangle her , and the ends
fication , no money , and no railway ticket . By then
occurred before her death was ensured by some
this stretch of line , but no information was
reports were being gathered about all traffic over
forthcoming about any carriage with an open
which might relate .
Both her wrists bore the marks of severe bruising ,
and there were other injuries on her body which had
train which had roared through the tunnel . There were
no letters or papers found on her to assist identi
door , nor any passenger reporting an incident
During that time a description of the girl was
circulated , and a Mr Robert Money came forward to
So the body of this small girl with the blue eyes and
whom she worked as a book-keeper .
identify her as his sister , Mary Money , aged twenty-two .
Clapham , on the premises of a dairyman , Bridger , for
The girl , who was described as being " always bright and
remained a mystery until later the following day .
long brown hair in a bun at the back of her head
jolly , " had been unmarried , and lived at Lavender Hill ,
evening at about seven o'clock , telling her room-mate , Emma
purse .
On the Sunday , the day of her death , she had gone out in the
Hone , that she was going for a walk , but would not be
carrying a handbag , but she believed she had had a small
gone for long . According to Miss Hone , she had not been
rican would not say ; nothing an
to which the Frenchman would not
glishman would not do ; nothing an Ame-
SOME years ago a contemporary philosopher
would not eat .
dance ; nothing the German would
told us that there was nothing an En-
Italian would not sing ; no music
not covet ; and nothing the Chinese
nothing the German would not covet ; and
nothing the Chinese would not eat .
told us that there was nothing an Englishman
say ; nothing an Italian would not sing ; no
would not do ; nothing an American would not
music to which the Frenchman would not dance ;
SOME years ago a contemporary philosopher
many centuries ago , in some cave or hilly
hold forth from a spear the welcome gobbet of
hide , did our forebears home from the chase
It is not our purpose to discuss this dictum .
homely and protecting flame .
borrowed straight from the prehistoric . How
the progress of civilisation which allows a dish
Suffice to say that few of us stop to marvel at
meat or fish burnt and roasted in the
ladies toying with these primitive morsels in the
evening meal . Later came the thrifty peasant ,
How many centuries later did the mercenary in
gleam and glitter of our latter-day restaurants .
later still the young Victorian buck adventuring
in Paris , and even later our attractive young
the Roman wars thus impale on pike or lance his
than mere converse has always been there .
And , if certain dishes and modes of food have
important than the casual meetings of the present
persisted down the ages , the motive that preserved
always been strong in mankind . The sharing of
day ; the desire to share something more intimate
them has always been the same . Apart from the need
a meal in those earliest dangerous days was an
admittance into an acquaintanceship far more
for nourishment , the instinct of hospitality has
programme of entertainment almost
tation affords an opportunity of
It is a far enough cry from the primitive
meal-times of a simpler world to the
showing a guest something of ourselves .
banquets of later days , when the table
groaned under its load of complicated
unlimited in its variety and its presen-
The truth is that good food offers a
dishes , and for all the blossoming of the
arts around them the diners were little
tongues ; unreasonable surfeit , too , in the
himself go ; and it was from his simpler
save at feast times , when he , too , let
There was always the spice of an orgy
in those Roman feasts , for instance , with
all their peacocks and nightingales'
those days , as ever , ate sparingly , but
generously enough in his own fashion ,
elaborate fashion of eating brought
by Catherine de Medici . The peasant in
out of Italy into France , we are told ,
eye with magnitude , began to understand the value of
Epicures and gourmands , sated by the unending
the dishes of the country , and , instead of gorging the
of the 18th century - that amazing epoch of
intelligent selection and comparative simplicity , though
procession of dishes from those mammoth kitchens
nowadays their simplified meals would seem quite
monstrous .
grossness and delicacy - sought inspiration at last from
of gorging the eye with magnitude ,
simplicity , though nowadays their
the dishes of the country , and , instead
intelligent selection and comparative
delicacy - sought inspiration at last from
that amazing epoch of grossness and
simplified meals would seem quite
mammoth kitchens of the 18th century -
Epicures and gourmands , sated by the
began to understand the value of
unending procession of dishes from those
Does one , however , know who first thought of boiling
water and food ? The ancient Britons , I believe , used to
make water hot by dropping a red-hot poker into it ,
because their pots would not stand fire ; but Jacob
his birthright to him for a mess of pottage - and
which the Israelites sighed .
must have had one that would , because Esau sold
then we hear of the fleshpots of Egypt after
Does one , however , know who first thought
Britons , I believe , used to make water hot
of boiling water and food ? The ancient
we hear of the fleshpots of Egypt
after which the Israelites sighed .
to him for a mess of pottage - and then
would , because Esau sold his birthright
but Jacob must have had one that
because their pots would not stand fire ;
by dropping a red-hot poker into it ,
When Achilles gave a royal feast the principal dish
lifted urns
length subside , He throws a bed of glowing
was a grill , which he cooked himself , and he knew
fragment turns , And sprinkles sacred salt from
way of cooking meat except by roasting and boiling .
embers wide ; Above the coals the smoking
Anyhow , Homer does not seem to have known any
how to do it , too : - When the languid flames at
Anyhow , Homer does not seem to have
except by roasting and boiling . When
turns , And sprinkles sacred salt
and he knew how to do it , too : - When the
throws a bed of glowing embers wide ;
from lifted urns .
languid flames at length subside , He
Above the coals the smoking fragment
dish was a grill , which he cooked himself ,
Achilles gave a royal feast the principal
known any way of cooking meat
and intellect . A remarkable peculiarity in the banquets
fireproof earthenware from the Egyptians , their cookery
in the preparation of stimulants for the palate ,
to their aid .
confine the resources of the table to the gratification
they broke fresh ground and called another sense
of one sense alone . Having exhausted their invention
made rapid progress , because they were men of taste
of the ancient world was the fact that they did not
When , however , the Greeks did learn the art of making
article in their festal preparations ; and it is the
was a subject of no little importance to the Romans .
By delicate application of odours and richly-distilled
perfumes , these refined voluptuaries aroused the
number of flowers far exceeded the number
opinion of Bassius that at their desserts the
of fruits .
fainting appetite and added a more exquisite and
They considered flowers as forming a very essential
ethereal enjoyment to the grosser pleasures of the
board . The gratification of the sense of smelling
traveller occasionally encounters a certain
and flowers proved of sovereign power
measure of novelty .
clarifying the functions of the brain . It
According to Pliny , and others , certain herbs
the sun , but regarding foodstuffs the
is said that there is nothing new under
they restore the hair of the bald and that
piece of resistance .
a delicacy . The visitor is told that
In China , for instance , dried rats are esteemed
A number of newly-born white mice served
like a prairie oyster is considered a
a stewed black rat will ward off a fever .
alive , dipped in treacle and swallowed
from eating it fresh , squash it , press
roasted on the point of a spear are
peoples have a high opinion of the octopus
as an article of diet . So have the Japanese
Among the natives of Northern Australia lizards
of it in almost any provision shop .
definitely a delicacy while Mediterranean
over with flour , you will find a stack
and the Chinese . The Celestials , apart
it and dry it , in which form , dusted
activities to a greater extent than is usually assumed .
If that country had not been for so long a battlefield red
provides many Magyar dishes with a vivid and brilliant
We naturally cannot overlook that Magyar cookery owes
Hungary would have been deprived of the condiment which
with the blood shed to defend Christian civilisation ,
Foodlore reflects much more of national temperament
one of its most classic features to the Turkish rule under
which the Hungarians groaned for nearly 200 years .
than is customarily imagined as well as entering human
fire , aerian creams , ingenious pastries and a
crescent-shaped breakfast roll created by a pastry cook to
aromatics where the paprika insinuates its perfidious
cookery is reminiscent of bull-fights , of Spanish dancing
celebrate the victory against the Turks in 1683 . Spanish
The Austrian cuisine embraces the delectable 6Wiener
Schnitzel as well as dishes and stews heightened with
and of Goja : it is vivid , highly coloured , sometimes
streaks of poetry , meat disguised under heavy and vehement
Quixotic and withal it has a sombre ardour , with
melody . The paprika and caraway perfume
ries recall in fact the rich heritage
the meats with their antithesis . The
opulent varieties of Czechoslovak past-
possibly comparable alone to a gypsy
essentially French , and , irrespective of
so languorous , so passionate , and
specifically national . The art and
The Czechoslovak kitchen , again , is
of rich embroideries and costumes
science of cookery , however , is
touch , the same unfailing sense of
proportion as exists among her
and aesthetic as well as physical .
exponents of things that are
derive from gastronomy is intellectual
feeding , the same subtle delicacy of
typically French .
The French have an inborn appreciation
of good food and the gusto which they
There is the same finesse about their
writers , music composers and other
her writers , music composers and other exponents of
the gusto which they derive from gastronomy is intellectual
about their feeding , the same subtle delicacy of touch ,
and aesthetic as well as physical . There is the same finesse
the same unfailing sense of proportion as exists among
The French have an inborn appreciation of good food and
things that are typically French .
The " pot-au-feu " is as much a national
institution in France as is tea drinking
least once a week in every bourgeois
baisse and sang - This Bouillabaisse
waxed enthusiastic about Bouilla-
a noble dish is , A sort of soup , or
broth , or brew , A hotch-potch of all
among ourselves and it is prepared at
could outdo ; Green herbs , red peppers ,
sorts of fishes That Greenwich never
household . Thackeray , of course ,
prepared at least once a week in every bourgeois
about Bouillabaisse and sang - This Bouillabaisse a
A hotch-potch of all sorts of fishes That Greenwich
The " pot-au-feu " is as much a national institution
never could outdo ; Green herbs , red peppers , mussels ,
saffron , Soles , onions , garlic , roach and dace .
noble dish is , A sort of soup , or broth , or brew ,
household . Thackeray , of course , waxed enthusiastic
in France as is tea drinking among ourselves and it is
piece of coarse bread and a
food , believing that it impaired the
as well as the foods for which they have
fast and supper consisted of a
had an aversion . Shelley , for example ,
the dietary welcomed by men of genius
had a great contempt for animal
A fascinating study also opens up in
intellectual faculties . Bunyan's break-
bowl of milk .
which they have had an aversion . Shelley , for example ,
and a bowl of milk .
breakfast and supper consisted of a piece of coarse bread
it # impaired the intellectual faculties . Bunyan's
welcomed by men of genius as well as the foods for
had a great contempt for animal food , believing that
A fascinating study also opens up in the dietary
Dante Gabriel Rossetti had simple tastes
in food . At one dinner he is said to have
examine the marks on the back
been blind to the charms of turbot and
in the dish in which it was served . He
to have been much more interested
without going through the formality
of having his turbot removed first .
turned it over on the table cloth to
without going through the formality of having his turbot
removed first .
dinner he is said to have been blind to the charms of
turbot and to have been much more interested in the
Dante Gabriel Rossetti had simple tastes in food . At one
on the table cloth to examine the marks on the back
dish in which it was served . He turned # it over
sole , a baked leg of mutton with oyster & veal stuffing and a
he talked . Brigham Young would make a dinner on tripe
with Dickens says the menu was Whitstable oysters , a brown
which he washed down with beer . A writer who had dinner
placing his food in his mouth and gulping it down as
gin punch .
Wagner was a highly practical feeder . He ate very fast ,
but all the Chelsea philosopher did in return was to
that he had dined with Longfellow told the sage a
very funny story which made Carlyle absolutely laugh ;
ask if his guest would have a cup of tea !
The same man went to see Carlyle , and , after mentioning
It was naturally a highly popular victory with the
him was the French Admiral , Jean de Vienne -
leadership . But , at last , Gaunt sailed . Opposing
who still believed that they had a monopoly of
Londoners , but it brought heavy censure from nobles
a great sailor and an able strategist .
involved the dreary method of mining operations in
Obedient to the policy of his King , de Vienne avoided
something to show , he foolishly attempted to besiege
on land . Gaunt was compelled to give up his search for
the well-protected fortress of St Malo . This
an elusive foe , and , afraid to return home without
which Gaunt , under the Black Prince , had shown
considerable skill at the siege of Limoges .
trouble at sea as cleverly as Du Guesclin avoided it
Hawley , were also expressing their disappointment
moment had charge of the mine ; the mine collapsed
comparing the failure of a subsidized duke
When all seemed to be going well , a sortie surprised
fame and glory . Gaunt was compelled to return
citizen .
even despised failure . The ' ribald ' Londoners , who
the longbows of yeomen could pierce the
These dreary years of ineffective fighting provide
plate and mail of French knights , a brilliant
became mere marauding route marches .
and that , if archers had no target , campaigns
after the event . It seems obvious that , though
battle was no substitute for a sound policy ,
obvious morals for those who are judges long
and that there was no hope of final victory
It seems obvious that if an expedition to
of the French war was a navy in unquestioned
Calais , Cherbourg , Brest , Bordeaux and Bayonne ,
Brittany was compelled to attack via Calais ,
without a large-scale and concentrated invasion .
advantages of a ring of bridge-heads which included
command of the Channel . It seems obvious
that divided forces were dissipating the
then the primary essential to the success
the story of the prelude to the
6impasse which always resulted , and in the
In this cruel process which was
to which the Exchequer resorted is
hammering out nations on the anvils of
way out of the complicated financial
Peasants' Revolt of 1381 .
story of the experiments and expedients
war , there was a constant stirring of
those in authority to find some simple
needed taxation in order to supplement
In appreciating this story , modern con-
taxation not merely for defence and
the private wealth of the monarchy
crown lands , the fees of feudalism
ceptions of governmental duties must be
offence but for a very wide range of
set aside . A modern government needs
( the royal income from the revenues of
social services . A mediaeval oligarchy
guilds of a city . A mediaeval tax was
Social service as a function of government
monasteries , manors , townships , or wards and
it was therefore always granted grudgingly
return was the uncertain bounty of booty
therefore in essence a forced payment whose
communities , whether those communities were
and the vague advantages of military glory ;
was quite alien to mediaeval thought - its
and coupled with the vain hope that , in the
substitute was the mutual self-help of
be bold enough to demand the production of
booty , a new group of Lords might oust
the unsuccessful . But the Commons were not
the people , and even a full Parliament was
the unsuccessful leaders , and the Commons ,
accounts , and even at times the impeachment of
not yet a true mirror of the nation .
who usually supplied the hard cash , might
When ' his ' war did not bring victory and
in the pay of landed Lords .
The people - Langland's ' folk ' and Gaunt's
successful farmers , the artisans , craftsmen ,
towns , and the retainers and men-at-arms
had bought their release , free labourers
' knaves ' - were villeins still tied to the
yeomen who had prospered enough to become
journeymen and small tradesmen of the
who worked for the highest bidders , free
feudal obligations of work or villeins who
None of these classes , except the yeomen , paid or
means of that ' staple ' system which ensured that
financing the Exchequer had become stabilized .
expected to pay direct taxes . During the four-
teenth century , the traditional methods of
pervised and controlled , together with a
prices , quality and tax could be efficiently su-
export tax on the wool trade , collected by
When the King and his Council required additio-
nal funds , they were usually granted an
first , the Church , which wisely followed the lead
the foreign merchants , with whom the King's
sanction at a rate roughly fifty per cent in
payments were now authorized by parliamentary
of the Commons and in its own Convocations
at ' colloquies of merchants ' , and whose
officials had formerly made private bargains
There were two other sources of public revenue -
excess of the rate for native merchants .
granted equivalent contributions , and second ,
In addition to these revenues , the King had the
vely simple obligations of the feudal pyramid
and national war , and in which the comparati-
It was , therefore , a complicated and not very
as ill-defined as the borders between private
satisfactory financial system in which the
financial benefits of his position at the head
of the feudal system , as its chief landowner
and the recipient of the fines of royal justice .
borders between private and public purse were
and , where the poorest were to pay a groat ,
attempt to apply a sliding scale to the
and between these two extremes a graduated
But this time there was a very interesting
scale of payments was fixed for the
payments demanded . The definition of an
different classes of laymen and clerics .
adult was altered to read ' over sixteen ' ,
of Canterbury and York were to pay ten marks ,
the Duke of Lancaster and the Archbishops
In the following year , 1380 , the last and
the results disappointing - a tax estimated
to yield 50,000 in fact raised only 27,000 .
Again the resentment was widespread and
poor communications and not over supplied
far away from the capital in a town with
with hostelries and lodgings .
most notorious third poll-tax was agreed
by a Parliament which met at Northampton .
There were dark reasons for a meeting so
The city merchants were jealous of foreign
from the chronicles that this was a sordid
merchants who could tempt court and
baronage with rarer luxuries than those
quarrel between monopolists and interlopers .
those charged with the crime . It is clear
London was again in turmoil ; but this time
over a question of trade rivalry . A rich mer-
chant from Genoa had been murdered , and
John de Kyrkby , a Londoner , was one of
the suggestion that the rich should help
poll-tax had supplied 22,000 , a tax of
carrying it into effect , and a subordinate
Trebling the rate was arrived at by a simple
arithmetic which argued that , as the first
three times the rate would produce 66,000 .
objections to the first two poll-taxes was
The only concession made in view of the
because no machinery was provided for
the poor - but this was only a pious hope
content of blood , appearing paler in so doing in animals
ments alternate with rests and are seen best in cold animals
from the dissection of living animals , showing how these move-
the heart becomes generally constricted , its walls thicken ,
In Chapter Two he gauged the nature of the heart's movements
such as serpents , frogs , and the like .
its ventricles decrease in volume and it expels its
or in flagging warmer ones . At the time of its movement
ventricular content .
the forcible expulsion of their contained blood by the
of the apex , the thickening of the heart walls , and
the dissections of living animals , Harvey noted that
contraction of the ventricles . Going on in Chapter Three
systole , simultaneously with dilatation of the arteries
contraction of the heart and the apex beat occur in
to the movement of the arteries , likewise gauged from
and of the artery-like vein , and expulsion of the
At one and the same time , therefore , occur the beat
less because their pulse is nothing other
when movement of blood through arteries is
Arterial pulsation disappears with cessation of
than the impulse of the blood entering them .
ventricular contraction . During cutting or puncture of
the ventricles , there is often forcible expulsion
of blood from the wound . Arterial diastole is
hindered by compression , infarction or inter-
ception , the more distal arteries pulsate
thus synchronous with cardiac systole but ,
one can sometimes see it - so to speak
- rouse itself and , in reply to two or
' And while the heart is slowly dying ,
three auricular beats , produce a single
reluctantly and with an effort . '
ventricular one slowly and
said so . Being a craftsman and a skilled man ,
would , and the comrades helped in many
business no good George would never conceal them .
would have nothing to do with him , others
ways .
George won many prizes , and though some people
Sentence Database
of the working class to control their own destiny , and
He was a socialist and believed in the right
Yet in spite of the fact that his ideas did his
shop , which was open from 8 o'clock in the morning to
When eventually the ovens were fixed at the new shop , the tremen-
were sold at 32 pieces for one shilling .
dously hard work was if anything intensified . George used to
12 o'clock at night . At that time pastries and buns
mix 100 stone of bread in 12 hours , and Kate served in the
Soon they were good enough to sing at meetings .
evening , when George went to speak at Malin Bridge ,
clothing , with which they wore a white tie
One of the helpful by-products was that
they would be there to begin the meeting .
and Red Flag badge , thus presenting a much
they were able to obtain some respectable
better appearance . Later , on many a sunny Sunday
men's clubs , to Conisborough on cheap trips to
sing to the miners , and sang for other organisations such
school was held .
on West Street , where a successful Sunday
the members . The B.S.P. also rented pleasant rooms
As they became known the Choir went to working-
day evenings to the Corner Pin Hotel , to rally
as the Bakers' Union , for whom they went on Satur-
read in prison where it was the
only book they were allowed ,
George often spoke at the Sunday school .
George , and another the dark-haired
with the Bible , which he had
One of the students was young
He christened the babies . Also , when
at funerals . Religion was one of his pet
called upon to do so , he would officiate
little granddaughter of Charlie Grant .
subjects , for being well acquainted
the Church Socialist League , genuinely advocated
courage of their convictions and their
with them , particularly those who , like the Rev.
Although his ideas were diametrically opposed
Conrad Noel , the eloquent leader of
socialism . With such men , who had the
to those of parsons he got on wonderfully well
Christianity , common ground could be found .
Just as the Labour Party had fought the
mined and obdurate in their attitude that
There was no abatement in political
Council meeting on October 16 , 1912 , George
Council , and to Parliament , being deter-
had said , ' Mr. Barton would go to the poll .
voured to get more socialist members sent to the
Liberals , they were going to fight the Labour
work . The British Socialist Party endea-
their candidate must go forward in the
elections . In the Sheffield Trades and Labour
and a gold purse in recognition of his
Alf Barton , who in 1911 was presented
cessary to understand Marxism in order to
he was a keen member of the B.S.P. .
work for the movement , was later
with a book on the life of Marx ,
understand socialism , though at this time
known to say that it was not ne-
After the First World War , 1914 , I did not visit
into it .
incumbency I was asked if I would start
Towards the end of my five and a half years'
This opened up a new interest , and we plunged
1924 I was in a different parish in Surrey .
a village choral society and conduct it .
Germany for ten years , by which time in
co-operated , we made the little side chapel a place
of daily prayer .
at Tatsfield to the great modern church of St. Mark's
had been a House of Prayer . I could not but feel the
When we had found a group of people who gladly
at Purley . One felt at Tatsfield that , small as the
chilliness of the new church , beautiful as it was and is .
church was , it had its own atmosphere , and for centuries
But what a change from the dear little old church
for prayer and quiet . In time we received similar
windows .
helped to furnish the chapel as a little sanctuary
gifts for the High Altar , and large East and West
warming up by constant prayer and worship , and we
found many to help . Gifts of candlesticks and
I suggested to the congregation that it needed
stained-glass lancet windows - finally a new altar -
such a beautiful building with suitable fittings ; I made
the architect , himself a fine artist . It is quite possible
table to the environs .
a rule that all gifts should be submitted for approval to
and yet spoil the building with ornaments unsui-
to put beautiful things into a beautiful church
It was very interesting to have the privilege of filling
wives and relations of the soldiers to get their ' Separation '
of the Committee in Coulsdon and Purley .
At a large public meeting we launched the project known as the
became very urgent , and I was asked to be Chairman
I found myself deeply involved . At first , the main work was to help
Meanwhile in Purley there was much activity and much
co-operation especially with the other Christian communities .
allowances , but soon , alas ! , as casualties began and increased
' Coulsdon and Purley Patriotic Fund ' in whose counsels and committees
in the winter of 1914 and 1915 the matter of War Pensions
Chairman of the local War Pensions Committee . This
task involved a very great deal of detailed work for
the Committee . We had a splendid body of local residents ,
and a series of excellent Honorary Secretaries . Our
Indeed , for the next seventeen years , during my time at
Committee met once a week in the evenings , and
life .
Purley , and from 1922 at Surbiton , I was continuously
included professional men from every walk of
time and # never interfered in the slightest
' immediately carried into effect ' - not in spite of himself
throughout . He had no sooner heard from Count Gamba
body to return to England than that course was
When he saw Trelawny's printed letter , Lord Sidney wrote
and Sir Frederick Stoven , but with their perfect con-
currence , while ' General Adam was at Corfu the whole
to Douglas Kinnaird saying that it was incorrect
and Fletcher that Byron would have wished his
degree about the matter ' .
evidently not passed on that information ;
as the year of their wedding , 1815 , had
knew perfectly well that Byron , as early
Their friendship for Augusta became rather
her practically all his money caused it to
title .
crumble to oblivion . Though Lady Byron
without the fortune that would keep up the
and it came as an appalling surprise to
hollow , and the news that Byron had left
Captain Byron that he had been left
made a will in Augusta's favour , she had
Then , abruptly , he drew himself up
became great sighs of ecstacy .
and came into the livingroom , where
his toes . He stretched his arms
drawing-in great breaths that
and walked on the very tips of
his entrance . He came , almost falling
Heather and Steve stood aghast at
over his head and yawned agape ,
He rose from his breakfast-nook bench
thrust out , arms dangling loosely .
forward in an ungainly shuffle , neck
hands together between his knees and leaning
" They have come ! " he said reverently , gripping his
transcendent event , the exalted desire of all
mankind through all ages ! The Kingdom of the
upward and shook his head slowly from
Mind is at hand ! " He turned beaming eyes
side to side .
forward . " Isn't it a glorious thing ! Long awaited
at an intersection for the light to change . At his
apartment he garaged his car and then stood
A superfluous precaution for there was no other car
loses its beat in death .
abroad ; and no pedestrian to cross his path nor to wait
earth had lost its life-tempo , as the heart
listening in the night . Listening in vain . For the
The set lighted-up but gave only a low
shaving when it came on , with a flat
... this is BBC calling ... "
the radio , which he kept tuned to CBO.
voice repeating : " This is BBC calling
Deadly stillness , deadly portent !
Steve awakened early and switched on
buzzing sound . He had just finished
flying saucer was tilting and dipping over
Coming around the great mass of the Chateau
almost painful sharpness . He reversed and
whirring sound , and a high-pitched hissing
overtone that sang in his ears with an
the War Memorial . There was a deep
Laurier , he braked to a screeching stop . A
turned back on McKenzie Avenue .
them out . Just what these orders will be , we don't
longer have any immunity .
caped Thetan subjugation . This time . But we no
selves in their zeal to get their orders and to carry
" The Thetans , " he said , " are presumably here to
take charge , as it were , of the minds of the
people - who are probably falling all over them-
know . Now , because of prior hypnosis we have es-
Thetans discover our mental independence
detection . If we can - well , then we
may be able to promote our own
treatment . If we can avoid undue
There can be little doubt that if the
are , beyond personal security ,
interests . What those interests
prominence , it may be that we can
we may form the nucleus around ...
I haven't a clue ; but , who knows ,
they will promptly give us their hypnotic
move about pretty freely without
back at them . " Heather agreed , and suggested
on her part ; but he thought it a good idea
There is just a hope that we may uncover
that they use Dan as a specimen demonstra-
some weakness , and find a way of fighting
not have been entirely an objective suggestion
ting how the Thetan machinations had been
working out . It occurred to Steve that this may
nevertheless .
preoccupied , and it seemed that the
ventured forth and made their way on
to offer any greeting . He was deeply
a new and strange phenomenon .
foot to Dan's house . Dan came
nor sound of flying saucers . So they
So they proceeded to see if the coast
to the door at their ring but neglected
ringing of a doorbell was to him
deserted , and there were neither sight
was clear . The street was quiet and
of their presence . They just stared at him , turning
decided upon . Inside they sat down unbidden , while
Dan paced the floor . He seemed completely unaware
their heads like tennis spectators as he walked up and
When he finally beckoned to them to enter , the action
down , up and down .
gave the impression of having been thought out and
Heather and Steve tried to make themselves
and the purpose he was to serve .
communication and of a vague
powerful , world-wide radio and systematically
turned the tuning knob through all the
at home . Steve switched on Dan's
impatience pending an awaited
Finally , being so obviously on their own ,
perplexity respecting his surroundings
His whole attitude was a mixture of
tuning points of the world's great radio
First , it was Sunday morning ; and , second , everyone
a single all-exclusive purpose .
the Avenue from its many tributary streets . It might have
been a normal business-day bustle , except for two anomalies .
walked , or drove , or waited as a person possessed of
They followed him to a city bus stop on Carling Avenue , where
he waited . The bus stop was a deserted island on an empty street .
But not for long , for soon pedestrians and cars flocked upon
as arranged , but he consoled himself by
plenty of time together in the future . And
January or early February . Angelina might be a
little sorry if we were not back for Christmas
back on Moon again , and able to do
real days and would return to New York in late
the future of everyone , including Angelina , depended ...
research at first hand into matters on which
Then he would go back to Plato for a final spell of
thinking that he and Angelina would have
Heaven alone knew when , if ever , he would be
had done so , had not materialised . " Do you
salary raise , on the expectation of which they
Hostettler
had contacts in political circles , a school-
They had been married for six years , but the
( literally ) all-powerful Rocket Release
a Mocrat Senator with a seat on the
friend of hers having married Lester Peron ,
Board .
furniture in the second year , " she moaned . She
know , I had to send back our bedroom
All Sally's relations were 4makrodeb now , but Tom
was a Static Mib , the middle-income-bracket equivalent
to 4sub-lil on the lower .
evening , when he had been left to cook his own meal .
Sometimes she took Harry around with her , but
never her husband , a fact he accepted as inevitable . " I guess
Sally made a mistake about me , " he said one
U.S. President's visit , but by a great storm in the photo-
not submerged beneath a deep natural atmosphere .
sphere of the sun . A matter which on Earth would hardly
penetrate beyond the minds of astronomers was of general
All Aristotle was excited at the time , not by the prospect of the
interest to the Mos , doubtless because their habitat is
solar system . True enough , such ultimate weapons had not been
Board presided had it in their power permanently to warp the
especially when one reflected that the rockets over which Mr. Peron's
with time instil the reverence which , on Earth , nature inspires ,
allies being more inferior than formerly to W.C.U. in the
One wondered if this greater awareness of the physical cosmos might
that they would be in the next one , Moon and her
weapons pronounced conventional .
used in the last few wars , but it seemed very probable
wives , romanced about him in his absence . " Lester was a
Sally " - here she had dropped her voice in homage to the
country lawyer , and we were very small 4microdebs , weren't we ,
duties and his wife , in the manner of middle-brow
we might get GO a bit better if he entered politics .
Lester was not home yet from his formidable
economic system : that was reverenced - " when he thought
plump hand towards her grand pianos , etc :
mouth-organ to be forgotten now . The time
at the same time a door banged - " but don't
got all these lovely things " - she waved a
we came through to 4makrodeb status and
Sentence Database
has come for him to be taken seriously
as a statesman . "
say a word about it , Lester wants his
That 's how he got the votes , that 's how
to him as those a lawyer makes in a court
But privately he turned out to be as friendly as
Mr. Wise the tube manufacturer , to have the same adolescent
openness and freshness , though perhaps not the same
maturity . One remembered that he was a lawyer
by training , and suspected that the points he made
of law .
so sharply in international politics were as abstract
which had grown up during the Moon's
Then what of the cultural life ? Did this per-
of free men everywhere , could only repel them .
and counteract the obsession with economics
guise which , far from attracting the allegiance
which might in time become social fact
The political life of Aristotle looked more and more
like a masquerade of business interests in dis-
haps nurture a genuinely civilizing impulse
first two centuries ?
worried little man-student who kept getting out of
trans-economic .
step . He looked as if nothing Moke and his
to be diverted , however , with the single exception of one
neurosis and not in some eruption from those
GO ; but the reason probably lay in elementary
deeper layers in the human psyche which are
minions could do to him would ever make him
Stepping out in their white shorts , they looked glad enough
putting their best foot forward .
had to get to pay off their college bills , were naturally
these young ones , on parade for jobs which they
Mos have an un-American love of parades , and
So once again the metaphysics were depressing ,
and in absolute contrast to the physical display .
of the jungle . ' Think there 's Indians
didn't seem to want to get off the raft . '
about ? ' It was most certainly an eerie
edge ... did you notice ? And the mules
whose presence I could almost smell ,
carefully casual . ' The servants are all on
' Something 's up , ' said Lord Undertone ,
night , exceptionally brilliant and strange ,
He peered as it were into the dark secrets
for in the proximity of the mountains ,
a bit earthbound tonight , Trout . I 've got a queer
if you ask me . Might be jaguar , might be ...
sensational 's going to happen . There 's things lurking
' Impressive , ' Lord Undertone said , gazing reverently
feeling , like I always get when something
head-shrinkers .
on the cosmic handiwork . ' All those stars . But I 'm
Hope I die kind of composed , Trout . I mean you can't
imagine the Christian martyrs twisting and shrieking ,
lion munching , or arrows where it hurts most . Or
shadows beyond the river . ' Something moved . '
can you . Look over there . ' He pointed to the
no matter how bad it felt , the fire you know , or a
through fear . ' A character Mr Gilberto mentioned
of a bottle . If your lordship will excuse me
a moment ... '
to other day , my lord . A being of whom
the forest Indians are said to be mortally
afraid , with a hoof shaped like the heel
' Bottle-Foot , my lord . ' ' Bottle-Foot ? ' His lordship
may have thought I had become unbalanced
to entertain for an instant the idea , the
to watch Mr Septimus more closely , Mrs
Caine too and Mr Gilberto who would ...
would be inopportune ; and with the idea came
Mr Septimus stood in the same case as
inconceivable idea , that Ariadne's arrival
myself ? But was it so ? I allowed myself
strange , the unwelcome , the almost
Sally and of course Mrs Septimus , for surely
a somewhat vulgar impulse , which I refused ,
Mr Septimus reserved and certainly very
any rate they remained with us , perhaps
we were all invaded by a most tranquil
But all three were to the casual
thoughtful , but that was his habit . Indeed
for such protection as our presence , or Mrs
savage tribes never approached this region : at
mood . Even the Indian servants relaxed , knowing ,
observation I permitted myself unruffled ;
so Mr Gilberto told us , that the wild and
But after what Mrs Caine had said it was never
to receive a summons . I could see that Mr Septimus
far from our minds that at any moment we were
a promontory , a mass of clean rock crowned with
was impatient for it . This afternoon , then , we climbed
trees and bushes , that stood well out over the lake .
" Good-bye , Morfydd . " He sought to enfold her in his arms . But he was too late .
heart that Morfydd was leaving him as surely as she was leaving Dinas .
waving , unkissed , from the window . And Dai , on the pavement , knowing in his
" Good-bye , Dai , " said Morfydd , smiling from the bottom step .
She was already up the bus steps , and the bus was away . And Morfydd Owen
Dinas Motor Omnibus Co. to ask what had happened to their
scene . The first intimation that all was not well came when a
on those fifteen miles of mountain roads , it disappeared from the earthly
damn bus .
Mr. Isaiah Roberts , landlord of The Traveller's Joy , rang up the
So the bus set out for Llangrwl . But it never reached there ! Somewhere ,
" Don't want to take too much notice of those old timetables , " Ifor said ,
reasonably . " Start running punctual and where are you ? People get
left behind , isn't it ? Very exasperating for one and all . "
supposed to leave at two-twenty . " " Who says so ? " " Your timetable . "
" Left here all right , " said Ifor . " Two-thirty-five , on the dot . " " It 's
the mask , now , Ifor did . " Dai Pugh , " he bellowed . " Leap on your bicycle
of humour , that Isaiah . He banged down the receiver . Very uncivil . Dropped
and scour the countryside between here and The Traveller's Joy .
" What do you want me to do ? Send out a sheriff's posse , is it ? " No sense
" And what are you going to do about it ? " Tendentious , Mr. Roberts sounded .
The two-twenty to Llangrwl has failed to
some dreadful ravine , or beset by
precious than jewels . Though Mofydd Owen
as with trembling fingers he fastened his
robbers , or being whisked off to Emergency
was , as he feared , departed out of his life ,
two-twenty carried , for him , a cargo more
trouser clips , he was seeing her lying in
complete her mission . " Paled , did Dai . For the
he still loved her dearly . Already , even
Ward 10 .
the title of " First Woman to Enter Space . "
Cadwallader when his child mind grasped
the fact that the green earth was falling
away at a rate of knots .
Morfyyd Owen was already qualifying for
But even his imagination , luckily for him ,
did not visualise the awful truth - that
" Where are we going , Mam ? " inquired little
" Damned if I know , boy , " said the driver .
the window . Went and consulted the driver .
Where indeed ? Megan Thomas spoke sharply
his ticket-punch nervously . Peered out of
But nonplussed , the conductor was . A
depth in this particular instance . Fingered
happened , if you ask me . "
" Where are we going ? " he echoed Cadwallader .
to the conductor , demanding an explanation .
" But something very untoward has
good man , mind ; knew his job . But out of
running into Llangrwl bus station .
his head . " God bless my immortal soul , "
Immersed in the Dinas Advertiser , was the
he cried . " Never mind your immortal
very moment when we should be
window . Looked again , eyes starting from
folded it , and glanced idly out of the
soul , " said Megan Thomas tartly .
" Here we are traversing the heavens at the
Rev. Edwards . Now he put down his paper ,
" It 's all very well , " commented
it . " Stung , the conductor was . " What you
Mr. Hayball from the back seat .
expect me to do ? " he inquired , bitter .
And no one doing the first thing about
us nowhere , " boomed the Rev. Edwards .
is it ? " " Mutual recriminations will get
" Radio Flying Control at London Airport ,
though half an hour ago she had
at the Youth Hostel before dark . "
Morfydd Owen was silent . But she
would never see her Dai again . And
looked down at the fast-disappearing
dismay . Quietly she began to
weep ...
regarded this possibility with
fortitude , it now filled her with
earth , and it seemed to her that she
" But Eth and me wanted to be
furiously on the road . Not a sign of
" Afternoon , Mr. Roberts , " he called , polite ,
Llangrwl , and his dear Morfydd quietly
as he shot past . His spirits were rising .
He had seen no sign of an accident .
Therefore Mr. Roberts must have been mistaken .
Joy . At last he caught up Mr. Roberts ,
walking very dogged towards Llangrwl .
the bus . He passed The Traveller's
He would find the bus safe and sound in
Dai , meanwhile , was pedalling
restive queue of people in the bus station ,
he found was Morfydd's mam , working
But disappointment awaited him . A
the windows . Little to be seen , only a
few lone stars , and the distant earth
The beleaguered passengers peered out of
herself up proper ... Getting dark , now .
waiting to be transported to Dinas . And
brooding in her shroud of mist .
when he went to Morfydd's house , all
The conductor switched on the lights .
his Eth . Morfydd thought of Dai . The
looked at his forlorn flock . " What
conductor peered ahead into nothingness .
about a verse or two of Cwm Rhondda ? "
the sleeping Cadwallader . Driver and
Rev. Edwards , standing at the front ,
Megan Thomas sat tight-lipped , nursing
On the back seat Stan Hayball embraced
he suggested hopefully .
from their lethargy . Something was
in a moment , followed by a great
too desperate for singing , then the
situation , he realised , must be desperate
approaching , faster , faster , a tearing
sank . If the Welsh found the situation
They looked at him , sullen . His heart
hurrying blur that was past and gone
indeed . But suddenly they were roused
rush of sound . They waved frantically .
pool and ration our supplies of food , if any . "
" Do as I say , driver . " Very stern , the reverend
through empty space . " Thank you , " the Rev.
gentleman was . So the driver peep-peeped as
Edwards said courteously . " Secondly , we must
a great basket .
He looked at Price the Provisions , who was nursing
too . " He folded his arms protectively over the basket .
Stared back did Price the Provisions , unwinking .
" Mr. Price , I think you may be able to help us here , "
" Intended for Plas Newydd , this lot is . Paid for ,
" Now , who has any food ? " he asked hopefully .
said the Rev. Edwards . Price shook his head .
Mutinous dog , thought the Rev. Edwards , who hadn't
he roared . Quelled , Mr. Price pulled out a grocery
began to read . " Six loaves , four pounds butter ,
list , pushed his glasses up on his nose , and
Island . " What have you got in that basket , Price ? "
two pounds marge , one tin pineapple , one York ham . "
enjoyed himself so much since reading Treasure
the Heavy World become changed . Some die . Most live
' But we - ' ' Stop your stupid talk , woman ! ' ' We are - '
' Be silent , woman , and listen , ' Band Appa Bondi said .
and grow wings . Between the worlds are many strong
rays , not seen or felt , which change our bodies .
' We know much , ' repeated the Chief Captive . ' Some
things we will tell you . All who make the journey from
tigerfly is not a tigerfly until it changes . So humans
stubbornly , throwing himself down . But Lily-yo and
When you come here , when you come to the True
World , you become a true human . The grub of the
Flor were listening .
change . ' ' I cannot know what he says , ' Haris said
heedlessly thrown down their souls .
Lily-yo said , doubtingly . The Captive with the
young , ' said the Chief Captive . ' You begin newly here .
each other . In their flight from the 4wiltmilt they had
Where are your souls ? ' Lily-yo and Flor looked at
fleshless jaw said , ' The grub of the tigerfly thinks
' To this True World , as you call it , we come to die , '
it dies when it changes into a tigerfly . ' ' You are still
as we are . Some may be born right . '
babies may be born with wings . ' The Captive with
the boneless arms added , ' Some may be born wrong ,
' You see . You needed them no more . You are still
Haris had trampled on his . It was unthinkable !
young . You may be able to have babies . Some of those
in life . To know is also good . Because we cannot move
is good and knows these things .
' You are too foul to live ! ' Haris growled . ' Why are
itself and declared , ' To be a good shape is not all
Chief Captive said . Suddenly his second head roused
well we can - think . This tribe of the True World
you not killed ? ' ' Because we know all things , ' the
at last . ' We do . ' ' Then why are you captives ? '
spoke for the first time .
Captives rule the True World ? ' Lily-yo asked
muttered together . ' Do you say that you poor
So it lets us rule it . ' Flor and Lily-yo
The flyman with ear lobes and thumbs connected ,
making his perpetual little gesture of protest ,
think and plan and know . Those who know
command the knives of others . ' ' No hurt will
are slaves to it . Only an outcast is free . Because
' To rule is to serve , woman . Those who bear power
' You will live among us and enjoy your life free
from harm . '
we are Captives , we have the time to talk and
come to you , Lily-yo , ' Band Appa Bondi added .
Flor - this other man creature is plainly useless -
here at a good time . Memories of the Heavy World
and its savage life are still fresh in you .
' Before she can enjoy , Lily-yo and her companion
' No ! ' the Chief Captive said with both mouths .
must help our great plan . ' ' The invasion ? ' Bondi
asked . ' What else ? Flor and Lily-yo , you arrive
gasped Flor . ' Yes . We plan to attack the Heavy
World . You must help to lead our force . ' The long
We need such memories . So we ask you to go
afternoon of eternity wore on , that long golden road
of an afternoon that would somewhere lead to
back there on a great plan we have . ' ' Go back ? '
everlasting night .
new flesh and tendon strengthened . To sail up in the
with their wings soon died away as the wonderful
and Haris there were many events . Chief of these was
had no place here .
flopping movements of flymen on the Heavy World
light gravity became an increasing delight - the ugly
Motion there was , but motion without event - except
for those negligible events that seemed so large to
the creatures participating in them . For Lily-yo , Flor
that they learned to fly properly . The pains associated
prepared to place complete reliance .
his own life , but Geoffrey's as well , to a strange girl
than a couple of telephone calls he was
been inclined to regard women as something
career . Now he realised that he was entrusting not only
which must necessarily be subordinated to his
whom he had never met and on whom after no more
Alastair was a bachelor . All his life he had
obvious that she did not fail to appreciate the
was prepared to accept the responsibility .
faith which he was placing in her and
It was a novel experience . Alastair was
quite unable to explain why he should feel
she checked back her instructions . It was
so much confidence in her . Once again
be waiting for you at the Hotel Roma at six this
both at midnight . " They might have been
uneventful life had he come across a girl who
evening - and I shall look forward to meeting you
sounded so charming and appeared to be so
arranging a supper party . Then she rang off .
efficient .
" Good luck , Air Marshal , " she said gently . " I 'll
Alastair admitted that never in a not altogether
below , was not recognisable among the host
of lower peaks . The screen of the air-to-air
For some reason the orderlies had forgotten
capped summit of Mont Blanc , seven miles
no permanent image .
to switch on the lights ; there was no colour -
physical features were distinguishable solely by
flickered across its surface , but there was
radar glowed . Occasionally minute spots
gradations of silvery greyness . Even the snow-
ground immediately ahead .
make a direct comparison between the radar
left , Milan . The directional angle of the
turned the scale slowly to cover the
image and the ground itself . Ahead lay the
In the exceptional clarity he was even able to
scanner could be adjusted to cover any
particular area within its range . Geoffrey
Plain of Lombardy ; to the right , Turin ; to the
naked eye , obscured by the ground haze which even
at the speed recorder . It seemed almost incredible that
the tiny white figure of 8.5 against which the needle
on the clearest night limited angular vision . He glanced
He was able to pick out towns , unrecognisable to the
was resting could really mean hundreds of knots .
ahead of time , " said Alastair . " We 'll run
pitch changed as the nose of the aircraft
Now , as Alastair reduced the thrust , the
dipped slightly . The needle of the speed
miles from their destination .
they were still more than four hundred
in on minimum engine power . " Geoffrey
before coming to rest at 5.0 . " We 're a bit
smiled . Alastair talked of running in when
recorder swung gently through 8.0 , 7.0 , 6.0
indication pointed to Eve being held .
by special helicopter from the Horse Guards
Parade to Boscombe Down , slept for six blessed
along which he had motored so desperately little
on the bridge over the Po , barely forty miles to port .
They were nearing Modena . Geoffrey focused the radar scanner
more than twenty-four hours earlier . Since then
conference in Bruce Denton's office , been whisked
thought he could recognise the route of N12 ,
he had flown to England , attended the vital
refreshing hours and had now completed two-thirds
of the journey back to the place where every
He was able to trace the course of the river ; he
Tartaro at a few minutes past ten on the
It came to just over six hundred
previous night . He worked out the distance
movements of the Bentley . It had passed
him at the temporary bridge over the
on the presumption that its route had been
through Florence and Rome and then
miles .
Geoffrey set himself to consider the
across Italy via Foggia to Barletta .
reproaches - and here he was bland and smiling .
own veranda , that he had taken the liberty of
to come over and make the presentation in her stead .
was less pleasant than appeared on the surface .
To Beryl , at least , this was anti-climax with a
asking Jack - as a representative of the Vallin family -
But it did not take her long to realise that his mood
vengeance . She had expected to be met with violent
He told her nonchalantly , as he led the way to his
coming back from Barbados so soon . " Beryl
too . They 're both here . " " I didn't know she was
" I caught him just as he was going to the
of fact I 'd asked him last night to deputise
said the first thing that came into her head .
for me and fetch her . He brought her to the party
airport to meet Blanche , " he said . " As a matter
north of the island .
poured cold water on the project . Everyone , he declared ,
had had a thoroughly good time , and it would take them
nearly to next week to settle down again . Meanwhile
express their disgust at Sir John's abominable treatment
of his guests . But Piers remained aloof , and when Beryl
suggested having a second party , the following week , he
Hubert would have betaken himself and his well-
Jack and Blanche were quick to sympathise , and to
earned gratuity to his native village at the
with injustice and contempt , ignoring
It was all over and done with .
it go at that , but she resolved to have
ignorant child .
her explanations as though he were
For the time being Beryl was content to let
opportunity presented itself . He must
it out with Piers when a reasonable
learn that he could not treat her
a schoolmaster and she a small ,
her great disappointment at being
them . But next morning she insisted
He gave her no chance of any private
relations , and tell them of
held up in Balicou .
conversation that evening , for when
to find , if possible , Hubert and his
Blanche and Jack left , he went with
on his taking her out in the jeep -
he asked , letting in the clutch . " No ; I want
beside him . " Is that all you want to do ? "
to make you understand just what happened
coldly . " I 'm a little tired of being treated
about this Balicou trip , " she returned
With an air of resignation he sent Judy , his
like an ineffective imbecile . "
Boxer , to the back , and made room for her
to make the presentation , I run the damned
to account for my manners , " he retorted .
" And I 'm heartily sick of being constantly called
sugary things you ought to have been there
you the best way I can by getting hold of Jack
fault . "
" What have I done wrong now ? I cover up for
party to the best of my ability - saying the
to say - and all you can do is to find
" It 's your superior attitude that riles me . " Beryl was
at Balicou doesn't interest you in the faintest degree . You
as though I didn't care a hoot about letting Hubert
scarlet with annoyance . " How I happened to be marooned
and his pals down . "
look as though it was only what you expected of me ,
" Oh , drop that nonsense , Piers !
to understand all the whys and
wherefores of your actions , " he said
stiffly . " Still less to criticise you . "
path fringed and shaded by citrus trees .
brought the jeep to a standstill in a rough
" If you want my true opinion I 'll give it .
" As your employee it 's not my business
Be yourself , " she exclaimed , with
mounting exasperation . " Very well ! " He
the matter because , very naturally , you were
sake show a glimmer of reason , " was his
You made some sort of a protest to Graybury .
equally indignant rejoinder .
I 'll give you credit for that . But you didn't press
idyllic surroundings . " " How dare you say
thoroughly enjoying Forrest's company in
such a thing ? " she blazed . " For goodness'
from him to fondle Judy , who , sensing something
amiss , was nudging her in the endeavour to
" I know . Absurd as it may seem , I didn't want
have had it in for Guy .
if I had absolutely insisted on sailing at the
gain her attention . " The truth is that
you to think badly of me . " She turned away
time originally arranged , Sir John would
on Guy's part that we missed seeing the
You see , it was , apparently , through a mistake
hardly have spoken with more contempt .
dares to stand up to him . "
" What harm could possibly have come to Forrest
flamingoes our first morning on the island . "
through Sir John's nonsense ? " Piers could
A bully like that respects anyone who
trying to say that Hewson would victimise
precisely the remark she had made to Guy .
important customers . " " So what ? You 're not
Graybury is one of Mr. Hewson's most
Forrest for behaving with ordinary moral
courage !
island I needn't tell you that Sir John
Beryl tried to suppress the thought that this was
She said icily , " As you pride yourself on
your knowledge of all the affairs of the
" What they can bring off ! I 'll admit that .
between what a senior and a junior
himself and his business to an unmention-
He 's quite capable of telling Sir John to take
partner can do , " was her quick reply .
able destination . " " There 's a difference
But Forrest might at least have tried . He 's
pretty spineless ! "
with Sir John ? " she enquired cuttingly .
I doubt it . He 's about as easy to push around
an attempt to show my lady-love that I
at that , but went on airily , " I 'd have made
" For all your good opinion of yourself ,
put her interests before my own .
as - as a grounded whale ! " He had to smile
" You think you could have carried more weight
that her failure to appear at a function
man was , she thought impatiently ,
and warm sympathy , as she explained
to have been guests at yesterday's
on the estate was a major error :
how she had come to miss the party ,
made her send a complacent glance
celebrations , and their friendly welcome
Their air of smiling somnolence showed them
in Piers' direction . What a fuss-box the
trying to worry her into the belief
toothless mouth stretched in a wide grin , told her
at the Villa in time .
beside her , his battered hat in his hand , his
would be 3" plenty , plenty sad " not to be back
explained right at the start that " 3Mis' Beryl "
in halting 6patois that " 3Mistah Piers " had
And then she received a jolt . Old Hubert , standing
could see 3anudder 3t'ing , " he went on in a
to all kin' o' boats , wid d'ose big , big
We all know how Balicou Island dangerous
lower voice , his sunken black eyes twinkling .
That it wouldn't be her fault at all . That
took the highest pride in keeping her word . " I
she was a lady who , like her Uncle Charles ,
3" He powerful anxious , poor Mistah Piers .
rocks in an' out o' de water .
habit .
day . Though he did not refuse wine , which the
did not act as though he found it necessary
except in moderate compliance with his father's
ways , even to reading law about two hours each
judge always had on the table at dinner , he
He had almost entirely settled back into his old
against them with the lift of the next wave .
of a mile and a half , came the yawl under her full
Around that rounded rocky promontory where the
triangular sail , and to the judge's frightened eyes , so
close to the rocks that it would be dashed
white spray could be seen flying across the distance
with part of that howling northwest gale .
What does time mean when weighed against the life of
" That boy ! That damned fool boy ! What does he mean
two human beings ? " Not until he was certain that the
by trying to come home now , even if he did promise ?
empty his lungs of stifling air and refill them
being flung against the huge boulders did the judge
yawl had rounded the rocky point instead of
yawl recover .
weather side of that pier ! He 'll wreck ! "
black eyes showing any emotion . With a
stay rope fastened , Bill made the
Willie Kim was speechless , only his slant
" My God ! " the judge cried out . " The boy
is going to try to make a landing on the
quick shift of tiller , and at the same time
jibbing the boom to which he had the
corner of the pier by inches , and
It seemed to the frightened judge
same time dropping the small sheet
of wet canvas , Bill cleared the
with the tiller still hard over , brought
the tiller hard over and at the
as though his son would actually
shoot the craft in under the outer
end of the wharf . But by pressing
the yawl up against the waves
everything , when he wants to . "
that were a little unsteady , they
He plenty smart though . " As they
reached the pier , the judge on legs
hip as I ever saw . That boy of
" that was as pretty a piece of seamans-
play in damn fine luck this time .
pier , leading the yawl toward
" 3Naw , " disputed Willie . 3" Just
" Willie , " the judge said huskily ,
found Bueno Buck , now on the
mine seems to know how to do
" Hello , Dad ! " Bill called . " I hope you
water in her . I wouldn't be
drag the boat ashore and turn
speed records on the way in .
surprised if we broke all
Yes sir , I am slightly wet , and
weren't worried . We 're going to
had more clothes on . "
Buck would be wetter if he
her over . She has a foot of
inches . Maybe big one four feet ,
man at catch 'em than Injun , Judge .
dragged out but before it was turned
pushing at the stern , the yawl was soon
over Bueno Buck reached into the foot
huh ? "
You look . Little one more as fifteen
of water , tossed out a string of silvery
With four doing the job and the waves
lake trout and said - 3" Bill , he 's better
few moments later the yawl was upside
exclaimed the judge . " Toss them on the grass
down , exposing its shallow keel .
" By George , that is a beautiful string of fish ! "
and then we 'll all get hold and heave . " A
with tears . " It 's so unfair , " she said .
Bertram's face was grim . " You think it was the Snort ,
don't you ? " John gave a short laugh . " I did , " he
said ; " but I 'd better stop thinking that now .
Pericles is fitted with an identically similar one . "
" So there you are , my dear . " Peggy 's eyes filled
in sharing his discomfort with Peggy .
sick . Just because he 's an Honourable he can do
" That little beast Robbie Munyard spent six
him ? " John didn't answer . There was no point
what he likes . Anyway , why pick on you to succeed
dockyard and now that she 's ready for sea he goes
months ashore while Pericles was refitting in the
bombs during the last war . Having deposited his
went in search of a drink . The lower bar was
empty , save for the lady known by all habitue
interest to The George , unhappily destroyed by German
baggage and unpacked his overnight-bag he
So he put up for the night at The Admiral's Head , that
famous Portsmouth hostelry , second only in historic
man who was staring moodily into a gin
*?2s as ' Seaweed ' , and a youngish , sharp-eyed
and tonic .
of the hotel . She greeted John , however , with less
than her usual cordiality and flashed a warning
memory was good , so was this stranger's .
of the bar was not 6persona grata . If her
Seaweed's memory was prodigious ; her manner
" You 're Commander Winter , " he said . " Have a
must have been worth a great deal to the proprietors
glance at him . Evidently the other occupant
gin ? " He turned to Seaweed -
Youngest D.S.C. in the war , what ? Crawled
what ! ' - as the Guards officer said on his return
from a visit to the Royal Navy . Submarines , what .
bomb . Should have been a V.C.
habits . ' Drink gin and call each other wallahs ,
" Make it a large one , darling . I know the naval
inside a submarine casing to defuse a Jerry
inherited desire to snub the man . If he did he
came to the rescue . " You haven't introduced
obviously thirsty . " John fought back his
the lounge or return to his bedroom .
Seaweed sensed his embarrassment and
would have to leave the bar and either sit in
What are you waiting for , darling ? The officer is
yourself , " she said with mock severity .
was . I 'm Ian Bawley . Does that mean anything
fault entirely , " said the stranger . " It 's my conceited
in the Daily Courier .
to you ? " It did . Ian Bawley's name was
strangers - that 's right , John , isn't it ? " " My
printed at the head of most naval articles
" It 's a rule on these premises . No treating with
nature - I assumed that you both knew who I
otherwise than take it . " Pleased to meet you ,
Commander , " he said . " Now what about that
drink ? " John nodded - he could afford to buy
one in return and he was lonely .
He held out his hand and John could not do
Bawley ? " " A pressman is always on the job . "
" Oh , the Press , " said Seaweed . " Down here on business , Mr.
absolutely right , " said Bawley , as he pushed over
a Lieutenant-Commander . Perhaps we could
please don't address me as Commander . I 'm
all else . We pride ourselves about accuracy on
his glass . " Fill it up , darling . Accuracy above
drop the rank - such a mouthful ! " " You 're
" For the sake of accuracy , " he said , " and I
know how you newspaper people value that commodity ! -
the Courier .
Ever known us bowl a wide about your Service ?
Somewhat embarrassing , what ? " " How can the
gin with relish . It was his favourite brand ,
his career , and his companion's attitude was
Check and counter-check - nothing but the truth .
truth be embarrassing ? " John sipped his double
challenging .
he was on the verge of a new chapter in
Life at home and in Bath had been a
Bawley . " The truth is usually very embarra-
He 'd never before met a pressman and
found him curiously stimulating . " You 're a
trifle too comfortable and humdrum .
said John .
" You know a great deal about me , "
bit of a humorist , aren't you ? " said
ssing . You 're in submarines , aren't you ? "
" It 's my business . I 'll tell you more . You 're
right ? " " Who told you ? " " Little bird .
going to take over command of Pericles . Am I
Other half ? " John nodded . " On me . " Bawley
'em up , darling ! "
shook his head . " All paid for by His Lordship , "
man with a couple of kids . Can't go wasting
he said . " Expense account . You 're a married
your substance on a complete stranger . Set
why should you ? " " I see . " John took the
companion . " You want me to talk , is that it ? "
John flushed . " I 'm not in need of charity . " " Come
off it , " said Bawley . " The proprietor of the Daily
refilled glass and looked over the rim at his
Courier knows what 's going on . If he doesn't mind ,
in the shiny papers ? "
of course . " " On one condition , " said John .
nothing to tell me , yet . But we 'll be meeting
" Tell me who the little bird was . " " Can't
have dinner with me ? On His Lordship ,
again , no doubt , and then you will have .
" You misjudge me , " said Bawley . " You have
Regard this as a softening-up process , and
you guess ? Whose portrait appears regularly
" Robbie " and friend ' , what ? You know the
Service matters . "
said John , " but you can pay for my drinks
contact , is our Robbie ; he gives us the gen and
if you want to , as long as you keep off
" You mean Munyard ? " " Sure . Very useful
sort of thing . " " You 'll get nothing out of me , "
we give him the publicity . ' The Honourable
" Good-oh ! One for the grill-room , darling , and
disposed towards each other .
tell George to bring in the 6carte du jour . "
Bawley was a man of his word . He kept
passed all too quickly . As they parted in
host and a splendid raconteur . The evening
the vestibule the two men were well
away from Service matters , was an excellent
lets me off the chain I 'll take you
John took it and put it in his pocket .
of the work is done . " He held out a card .
give me a ring at this number and I 'll
" You should . Next time you 're in Town
take you round the pubs where most
" Thanks , " he said . " If ever my missus
up on that .
" Ever been to Fleet Street ? " asked Bawley .
" I shall be busy for a while , cleaning up after
lying in pairs alongside the jetty at Fort Blockhouse .
" I don't know when that will be , " said John .
Black and grimly businesslike they both looked and
Glad I met you . Don't forget to give me a ring -
Master bloody Munyard . " THERE were six submarines ,
charged their electric batteries .
sounded , for all of them were rumbling as they
any time - knock twice and ask for Bawley , what ? "
a substantial breakfast . Although usually a very
Turton noticed its existence as they sat in silence over
talkative lady Madeleine respected her husband's
through the open windows of the Captain's house . It
A light wind wafted the smoke of diesel exhaust in
pervaded every room but neither Harry nor Madeleine
silences , for she knew they betokened a worry of
some sort .
affair of Parsifal . Harry had lost a good deal of weight .
There had been many such breakfasts lately since the
but she could see that it no longer came naturally .
to experience such catastrophes as the loss of a submarine ,
It is the common lot of all Squadron Senior Officers
His normal placid and steady-going manner remained ,
far between .
though in peace time these happenings are few and
This is the testing time for all . The affair blows up into
usual and in fact had applied all the usual specifics
must present an unruffled appearance and carry on as
written letters to the bereaved , had visited many in the
locality , had been interviewed by the Press , had driven
must continue as before . During this period the Captain
a national disaster and then when it is all over life
if nothing unusual has happened . Harry Turton had
suitable for such occasions .
his surviving submarines a good deal harder than
Jeannie 'll be on that coach , Dan . "
thinking what a skill he had for reading
near me . " Yes , " I said . " It 'll be here to-
He rode down to where I was waiting . I was
for a hold-up as any , " he said , reining in
my mind . " This would be as good a place
morrow as likely as not . " I paused . " Miss
in it . "
But I reckon they 'll be too busy shooting at
in , Johnny . " " I know . But if lead starts
" Yes , " he said . " I know . " " No harm must come
to her , Dan . " " She 'll be all right . It 's the
men who 'll be after that coach I 'm interested
flying she might be in danger . " " That 's so .
us to bother with the coach and the folks
turned the conversation . " Let 's ride over
giving me one of his strange looks . Then he
and have a look at the mining camp .
" Maybe , " I said . " But we 've got to remember
working for , as well as the townsfolk and
of responsible for her . " " Of course , " he said ,
that girl all the time , Dan . I feel kind
the agency detective . "
After all it 's them we 're supposed to be
I said . I watched him because I was always
Dead . Shuffled out of the deck . Blasted
last night . "
With something of a start I remembered the
down with a shotgun outside the Palace
" Maybe you don't know about Appleton ,
tried to surprise him . " Dead ? " he said . " Yes .
Dan ? " " Know what ? " " That he 's dead , "
man who 'd brought us into this business .
fascinated by the way he looked when you
leading to the ridge . I followed . From the
mining camp , " he said abruptly . He wheeled
Marshal , " I added . His face was fixed ,
country that lay all round Gilburg Crossing .
" Fenton or Somers , " he said . " Or the Town
unreadable as a rock . " Let 's get over to the
top you could see something of the wild hill
his horse back off the trail and up the slope
miles . The real high country of the Rockies
The air was fresh and clear and you
could see far over west and north for many
a vast stretch of hills , canyons , buttes and
malpais .
lifted up in the distance like a pale water-
colour drawing . Between us and that lay
into draws , circling a big mesa by a
the horses and drank enough to cure our
got hotter as the day wore on and we rested
cut the trail leading from Gilburg to the north . "
" The mine-workings lie north of the town , "
So we swung west , making slow going over
rough country , sliding on shale , climbing down
gratefully by a small creek where we watered
said Dan . " If we head west we ought to
four or five mile valley , sandy-floored . It
thirst .
We turned north into it and after about four
we figured would lead to the miners' camp .
miles it led into a small canyon which
over a fairly wide area working singly or
opened out into a wide shallow draw .
in pairs .
Here in a dried-up creek-bed we found
the miners at work . They were scattered
An hour's riding brought us to a trail that
out , " If you come any closer , I 'll sure blow
shack and as we got near someone inside bawled
to him about what happened last night . "
your whiskers off . " " Take it easy , mister , " I sang
got no whiskers so as you can see . Just you
We didn't approach unchallenged . Just short
go and tell Nick Dowd we 've come to talk
out . " We don't aim to come any closer and we 've
of the diggings there was a roughly-built
there 's gold and women there 's always trouble , "
was never long on patience .
wavered . We sat our horses , waiting . " Looks as
peeking out through a hole in the shack never
though they 're expecting trouble , " I said . " Where
whistle then , loud and shrill . The gun barrel
observed Dan , shifting about in his saddle . He
" Oh , " said the unseen guard . He blew a
Mr. Copthorne knew a way round by the side
kind of sequence .
in a huddle upon an upturned wheelbarrow .
gasp it was scientifically supposed his whole
were going on in his bewildered brain . When
life came up before him in some cinematic
outbuilding where the grave digger kept his spades
of the church where there was a small open
be open . It was . He entered , and seated himself
a man was drowning and towards his last
and forks and tidying up implements . It might
His curious headgear fell off . Strange things
Walking out of the chapel later on . Continuing
boy , then a young youth . He saw himself refusing
on , his leaping mind flashed pictures of chi-
dly decadence and absorption in debase-
baptism according to the sect his parents belonged to .
Mr. Copthorne was on dry land in a church
canery and corruption , the growth of the dea-
outbuilding , but this was happening to him now . He
ment and Satanic debauchery .
saw himself as a sulky , ugly , malformed , repressed
was Mr. Copthorne all right . Perhaps he had
speak normally .
hunted eyes , as if the poor fellow had rocks in
in London . Very strange his eyes looked . Mad ,
He didn't know what to make of it , but it
his head , so the verger described afterwards .
been attending some kind of fancy dress do
" You 're very early about , sir , " he said , trying to
the fourteenth century . "
me , " said Mr. Copthorne . The verger
to take a look at the church . I 've
never been inside . Very remiss of
the thought came to me I 'd like
as the dawn was breaking , and
windows , sir , they date back to
" Yes . I travelled down from London
led the way in . " The stained glass
and her luggage had disappeared and they were alone
flights back . "
taxi . " Just a moment , darling , " Gavin pressed her
quickly through the customs . " Gay ! " " Gavin ! " The girl
hand and smiled . " I want to check up on the
There were few passengers on the plane and Gavin was
together . The porter brought Gavin's bag out to the
went quickly back to fetch them .
taxi , and then found that in
of despair Gay knew that of course
Gavin she had left her sun-
off the plane with him were talking .
pocket-book , with a sick feeling
the excitement of meeting
Gavin and the girl who had got
glasses on the veranda . She
He was writing something in his
Gay went out to the waiting
beach . A moon like this mustn't be wasted . "
He gestured towards the bay where the full
laid his hand on hers . Gay smiled at him
kisses she had seen him giving Elaine .
only , yet remembering for a second the
now Gavin was in love with her and her
again , happy beyond belief , knowing that
" And then we 'll go for a stroll along the
moon was just rising over the rocks , then
would never be jealous again , would even take Larry's advice and
look the other way if need be . " I say ! " Gavin was looking over her
lovely , she 's French , a very well known model I believe .
All that was part of the past , she would put it behind her . She
shoulder . " That 's a pretty girl ! " Gay glanced behind her , " Isn't she
Lilyan remonstrated . " They want to be
can't find a table for two . "
cafe*?2 , " Doc said , " they are packed
sitting just inside having coffee .
tonight so come and join us if you
boy friend , " Doc called . " No , Doc ! "
alone . " " I 've booked a table at the
Gay , a little puzzled , went through
to the bar . Doc and Lilyan were
" Come and join us and bring your
Gay thanked him and walked out on to
As Gay watched he offered the girl a
She looked round scanning the tables ,
then caught her breath , a cold hand
hers in an intimate way .
seated at a small table in a shadowy
corner talking animatedly to Simone .
had bought a drink and taken it outside .
cigarette and lit it , his hands cupping
seeming to clutch her heart . Gavin was
the terrace thinking that perhaps Gavin
Doc , while she wanted to do no more than
but she turned away , giving a little
gesture of hopelessness , knowing that her
run upstairs to her room , knowing that
Gay stood irresolute for a moment , half
loved her , was already flirting with a girl
decided to go back and join Lilyan and
Larry's advice flashed through her mind ,
Gavin although he had told her that he
that he had only met a few minutes before .
as Gay drew out a chair and sat
that Larry had given her , while she
anything , " Gay told herself desperately ,
The others were all dancing and
Simone on to the floor . " It doesn't mean
trying to understand Gavin's point of
view and remembering the advice
felt wretched beyond words .
down Gavin , without a word , swept
to help her control her feelings . " Come and
with the cigarette packet which lay on the table
ging a smile .
taste but it was unkind beyond words . She fumbled
lifeline and Gay got up quickly , mana-
His behaviour was not only boorish and in the worst of
dance , " Doc's cheery voice came as a
not wanting to smoke but needing some action
and no doubt he would come back soon and
would make love to the French girl on the sands ,
kisses on the way back to the hotel .
after Simone had left expect her to accept his
and Simone go through the doorway that led
down to the beach . Gay closed her eyes for a
As he swung her on to the floor Gay saw Gavin
moment in disgust . She was fully aware that Gavin
mentally adolescent cad . " " Oh , Doc ... " Gay protested
Sentence Database P02-109
weakly , " you don't know Gavin . " " I 've only met him
today but I think I can safely say that I know
heart out over ? " Doc nodded towards the door . " You
-----------------------------------------------------
" And that 's the man whom you have been eating your
him a great deal better than you do . "
may consider him a man , I would say he was a
who doesn't care two jots for your feelings .
thought you were sensible too . Don't
If he behaves like this now what is your
fine girl , intelligent , and pretty , and I had
make a fool of yourself over someone
yourself away on a chap like that . You 're a
Gay , and don't even contemplate throwing
Doc gave her hand a shake . " Wake up
married life going to be like ?
glad to be able to occupy herself .
dining together . She opened her bag
letter . She drew it out and opened it ,
was behaving since they had seen them
Doc asked Lilyan to dance and once
to get out her compact and saw Grace's
feeling self-conscious and awkward , sure that
people were talking about the way Gavin
again Gay found herself alone at the table
He 's getting on well but is pretty helpless still with his
" So glad that you are having such a lovely time , dearie , "
and have been over to sit with her father and do what
it ran . " Your cards are lovely . I rang up Miss Harland
I can for him so that she can get out to do her shopping .
broken arm .
No other news except that Elaine is engaged
with at her party . That was why
knew why Gavin had come to see
Gay read the rest of the letter then put
Everything was quite clear now , and to
to the man she had spent so much time
Gavin had come back to her .
and going to marry a foreigner ... "
her .
it back in her bag . Elaine was engaged ,
rather a sense of relief now that she
her own surprise Gay felt no heartbreak ,
for Gavin at the way he was behaving as she
understand , knowing that Gay was as much ashamed
" That is a pretty dress , " Lilyan commented , obviously sensing
Because she was second best . The others came back
knowing that they were real friends , even if they were new ones .
Gay's distress and in a way that Doc , as a man , could not
she felt happier . Gay loved them for their warm sympathy ,
to the table , all of them making a fuss of her and at once
was hurt for herself .
one has to know something about fishing
I don't think I 'd go to Edinburgh un-
take my pick , whereas in Yarmouth
be a doctor , and I already know
home , or perhaps a student studying to
" There are all sorts of wonder-
less I was a Scot and wanting to get
ful jobs in London and I could
and in Liverpool they 'd want sea-farers .
all about that . "
Sometimes they talked on the theme of " when we get married " ,
and then all was wonderful , and perhaps it had only been
that lark , I can tell you ! "
a slip of the tongue when Nigel had said , only last
She was engaged to Nigel , had been for two years .
evening , " If we get married , old girl , you 'll have to stop
been standing in for Luke Parsons at his surgery in
Little Phelpham .
She couldn't remember what they had been talking about or
with it was coupled a disembodied fragment of information ,
which ' lark ' she would have to stop , only that significant tiny
which now took on an ominous significance : Nigel had been
word shouted into her very soul a horn of warning , and
seen in Farlingham on an occasion he had sworn he had
the situation would have been intolerable
when she was not free ; this much they had
about their relationship . So when Nigel
Now Nigel had every right to go where he
had there not been some give and take
liked during his off-duty periods
had told her about taking Luke's
conceded one to the other . They rarely
found they were off duty together , and
evening surgery she had said ,
of variety and it 's a change . " Nigel was the hospital's
he shrugged diffidently , " I like the work . One gets plenty
asked hopefully .
suppose , to meet me for supper somewhere ? " she had
Junior Medical Officer . " You won't be free about nine , I
" Bless you ! I hope Luke is suitably grateful , darling . " " Oh , well , "
I 've got to see 'em . If I am free , though ,
" Hardly likely , my sweet . Luke's surgery goes on for
I 'll give you a ring , O.K. ? " O.K. , " she had
replied readily . So how could Nigel have
dancing with a blonde at eight-thirty that
hours . If they get in before eight-thirty , even
though they 're standing on one another's toes ,
been at the Load of Trouble roadhouse ,
very evening ?
face , Di , but it certainly looked like
NUF 121 . " " He probably loaned his car
" No , " she told Phil Gubbins , a junior
Nigel from the back . D.j. and all .
Young Gubbins shrugged . " I didn't see his
to somebody , Phil . He 's always doing that . "
to go into the Load of Trouble . "
Of course such as I couldn't afford
houseman , " it wasn't Nigel you saw ,
my lad . " " It was Nigel's car , anyway .
With a blonde , too . Imagine ! " Nigel was frowning . He
mouth , an act of devotion he didn't over-indulge .
suddenly in an upsurging of relief , " that stupid
Gubbins boy thought he saw you at the Load of Trouble .
" 5Ye-es ? " he lowered his eyes and kissed her on the
handsome at other times .
" What about it , my sweet ? " " Well , " she laughed
looked distinguished when he frowned ; boyishly
" Gubbins ? Gubbins ? " he fretted . " Who 's he ? "
he now demanded . " What was he
member of the staff , distinguished or not ,
Nigel often had to think hard to sort
doing at the Load of Trouble ? "
them out . " He 's the carrotty lad , isn't he ? "
Though Diana knew the name of every
" Don't be such a baby ! " They were going
to have an open quarrel
joking , Nigel . " " You shouldn't joke
" But I want it ! " she protested . " It 's my ring . "
" You just gave it back to me . " " I
didn't ! I was joking . You know I was
any minute , and she knew it .
about serious things like engagements . "
Almost in desperation she appealed , " Will you meet
he told her , and suddenly seized her in an embrace
kissing somebody else's girl , " he decided wickedly ,
receive a sharp slap for his pains .
me up for tea , of course . I just thought . " " I 'll see , "
me at the gate , four o'clock tomorrow ? " " Why ? " he
enquired , combing his thick , tawny hair . " To bring
which really hurt . " Without your ring it 's just like
and kissed her again , somewhat startled to
what you 'd get , " she flashed at him , and
out of his sight . " Mine , " Nigel Lester had
decided with a sigh of satisfaction , and
then regarded the ring which he retrieved
which had followed her slim young figure
with some bitterness .
so had left him , on her dignity and not
" If I were somebody else's girl that 's
seeing the look of admiration and revelation
from his pocket . " At a price , " he concluded ,
there was just time to smoke a cigarette ,
hospital .
They often had such a rendezvous , for
Sentence Database P03-189
if one walked slowly , between road and
steely . ' I see . ' Scorn lashed his
badly - at any price . I hope
His mouth hardened , his eyes became
Truth ! ' His gaze held hers
you are satisfied . '
words . ' I wonder you dared trust
him to my care . ' ' Nicholas - '
masterfully . ' You wanted it so
' Well ! At least I know the truth .
vulsion that was homicidal .
mantle , and said with such
And as he spoke , the thought
he put back his professional
tied . He dare not precipitate
room filled him with a re-
icy politeness , such withdrawn
Even in that , his hands were
of Philip lying in the other
coronary . And in that second
what might well be another
will contact your new doctor
his # prescription pad , and
# scribble on it . Then ,
' I will leave you the necessary pre-
waistcoat pocket , take out
he tore off the leaflet and
with a gesture she knew so well ,
scription for the sedatives . You
when you reach your parents'
house . ' She watched him flick
his fountain-pen from his
thing - not even friendship .
him . She couldn't hate him ...
him go , unable to speak , she
felt that part of her was leaving
with a deadly finality . Watching
' Good-bye , Sandra , ' he said
If only he would have con-
fided in her , given some expla-
nation . Now there was no-
a hand and grasped hers .
solace in that fact at least .
the word . Nicholas , Philip ...
peace of mind ? Philip put out
He needed her . She would find
Love . She revolted against
words : ' I love you - oh , you
where was happiness , or
She went back to Philip . But
know that well enough . '
all she could hear were Nicholas's
what they were saying . Sandra
given her . ' I 'm sorry , darling . '
She had her truth . How much had built
talking to Nicholas and wondering
I knew he was responsible for
said instinctively : ' I told him
up from that first ideal , and how
little joy , or satisfaction , it had
He looked nervous . It had been
Beryl's death . '
hell lying there , knowing she was
you sure that she was telling the truth ? '
disbelieve the facts . ' Elation
no matter how one might want to
Her eyes darkened in torment . ' Are
touched him after the cold wind
' Good heavens , darling , why on earth
to see what comes out at the inquest .
should she lie ? Besides , it wasn't just
her word . There was enough evidence ,
of suspense . ' It will be interesting
will matter most . ' Strange how just
will be truthful , but what he leaves out
then Philip was so certain that Nicholas
Sandra too deeply to ruin her
origin of her recent illness . His notes
future happiness . Had ever circum-
he 'll confine himself to the nervous
would never betray him . He loved
Philip's spirits soared .
What his story will be . I reckon
stances conspired so cunningly ?
Something in Sandra's attitude struck
can you ? ' ' Forgive is an unctuous ,
He was better ; he had made a
miraculous recovery and Sandra would
' You can't forgive him for this -
patronizing word , ' she replied . ' I despise
the deceit . The lies . '
certainly looked after his own .
him suddenly , making him say :
soon be his wife . The Devil , he thought ,
purpose than the throwing of dust in his
the original colour of his own natural vowels ,
His digressions too , seemed to have no other
a grey superimposition of respectability over
just dusty-grey but muddy , slimy even .
the fake friend of the family , like the
client's eyes , the dust of fake security , of
the result being somehow as ineffective , not
His voice was like his black and pin-stripe ,
